The United States Condemns Russian Cyber Attack Against the Country of Georgia - United States Department of State Skip to content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. 2017-2021 ARCHIVED CONTENT You are viewing ARCHIVED CONTENT released online from January 20, 2017 to January 20, 2021. Content in this archive site is NOT UPDATED, and links may not function. For current information, go to www.state.gov . Close The United States Condemns Russian Cyber Attack Against the Country of Georgia Press Statement Michael R. Pompeo, Secretary of State February 20, 2020 Share Share this page on: Close On October 28, 2019, the Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) Main Center for Special Technologies (GTsST , also known as Unit 74455 and Sandworm) carried out a widespread disruptive cyber attack against the country of Georgia.  The incident, which directly affected the Georgian population, disrupted operations of several thousand Georgian government and privately-run websites and interrupted the broadcast of at least two major television stations.  This action contradicts Russia’s attempts to claim it is a responsible actor in cyberspace and demonstrates a continuing pattern of reckless Russian GRU cyber operations against a number of countries.  These operations aim to sow division, create insecurity, and undermine democratic institutions. The United States calls on Russia to cease this behavior in Georgia and elsewhere.  The stability of cyberspace depends on the responsible behavior of nations.  We, together with the international community, will continue our efforts to uphold an international framework of responsible state behavior in cyberspace. We also pledge our support to Georgia and its people in enhancing their cybersecurity and countering malicious cyber actors.  We will offer additional capacity building and technical assistance to help strengthen Georgia’s public institutions and improve its ability to protect itself from these kinds of activities. Tags Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs Cyber Issues Cyber Security Georgia Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues Office of the Spokesperson Russia The Secretary of State Related Articles October 19, 2020 United States Charges Russian Military Intelligence Officers for Cyber Crimes Read more April 17, 2020 The United States Concerned by Threat of Cyber Attack Against the Czech Republic’s Healthcare Sector Read more August 31, 2020 Secretary Michael R. Pompeo With Vince Coglianese and Mary Walter of WMAL’s Mornings On The Mall Radio Show Read more Back to Top Search: Search Close U.S. Department of State The Lessons of 1989: Freedom and Our Future