APT44: Unearthing 
Sandworm  

APT44

Authors

Gabby Roncone, Dan Black, John Wolfram, Tyler McLellan, Nick Simonian,  
Ryan Hall, Anton Prokopenkov, Dan Perez, Lexie Aytes, Alden Wahlstrom

Acknowledgements

Collaboration with companies and governments to track and mitigate threats is critical to our collective efforts to defend our networks 
against adversaries. The efforts of Mandiant Consulting across many incident response engagements in Ukraine since 2022 enabled 
much of the analysis included in this report. We’d additionally like to thank Mandiant's FLARE team, former Mandiant employees, ESET, 
Microsoft, Google TAG, numerous global government organizations, and most importantly, all of our partners in Ukraine. Our work would 
not be possible without their contributions.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1

Executive Summary

With Russia's war in Ukraine in its third year, Sandworm  
remains a formidable threat to Ukraine. The group’s operations  
in support of Moscow’s war aims have proven tactically and operationally adaptable,  
and as of today, appear to be better integrated with the activities of Russia’s conventional 
forces than in any other previous phase of the conflict. To date, no other Russian 
government-backed cyber group has played a more central role in shaping and 
supporting Russia’s military campaign.

Yet the threat posed by Sandworm is far from limited to Ukraine. 
Mandiant continues to see operations from the group that are global in scope in key 
political, military, and economic hotspots for Russia. Looking forward, a record number 
of people will participate in national elections in 2024, and Sandworm’s history of 
attempting to interfere in democratic processes further elevates the threat the group 
may pose in the near-term. Given the active and persistent threat to governments and 
critical infrastructure operators globally, Mandiant has decided to graduate the group 
into APT44. 

Key Judgments

 • Sponsored by Russian military intelligence, APT44 is a dynamic and operationally 
mature threat actor, actively engaged in the full spectrum of espionage, attack,  
and influence operations. 

 • APT44 has aggressively pursued a multi-pronged effort to help the Russian  
military gain a wartime advantage and is responsible for nearly all of the  
disruptive and destructive operations against Ukraine over the past decade. 

 • We assess with high confidence that APT44 is seen by the Kremlin as a flexible 

instrument of power capable of servicing Russia's wide ranging national interests  
and ambitions, including efforts to undermine democratic processes globally.  

 • Due to the group’s history of aggressive use of network attack capabilities across 
political and military contexts, APT44 presents a persistent, high severity threat to 
governments and critical infrastructure operators globally where Russian national 
interests intersect.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  2

Overview of APT44

APT44 (commonly known as Sandworm, FROZENBARENTS, and Seashell Blizzard)  
is a Russian Federation backed threat group attributed by multiple governments  
to Unit 74455, the Main Centre for Special Technologies (GTsST) within the Main 
Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation (GU), 
commonly known as the Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU). Mandiant has tracked 
APT44 operations for over a decade, with publicly available images of the unit’s 
anniversary insignia placing the group’s formation in 2009. 

While most Russian state-backed threat groups tend to specialize in a specific mission, 
APT44 is a uniquely dynamic threat actor that is actively engaged in the full spectrum  
of cyber espionage, attack, and influence operations. These respective components 
constitute the gamut of special activities typically carried out by the GRU’s Information 
Operation Troops (VIO), to which we assess APT44 is highly likely subordinated.  
We therefore view APT44 as a characteristic representation of the information 
confrontation (IPb) concept that underpins Russia’s present-day cyber forces.

GRU
Main Intelligence 
Directorate of the 
General Staff of 
the Armed Forces

Unit 55111
Information Operations Troops (VIO)

Unit 26165
85th Main Special Services 
Center (GTsSS)

Unit 74455
Main Center for Special 
Technologies (GTsST)

APT44

APT28

Figure 1. GRU VIO Structure including Unit 74455

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  3

FULL SPECTRUM 
OPERATIONS

ESPIONAGE 

ATTACK 

INFLUENCE 

Cryptographic Reconnaissance   
of Information and 
Communication Systems (KRIKS) 

Криптографическая Разведка 
информационно-Коммуникационных  
Систем (КРИКС)

Information-Technical Influence / 
Effects (ITV)

Information-Psychological 
Influence / Effects (IPV)

Информационно-Техническое  
Воздействие (ИТВ)

Информационно-Психологические 
Воздействие (ИПВ)

Figure 2. APT44 Full Spectrum Cyber Operations 

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  4

A Global Targeting Mandate

APT44 operations are global in scope and mirror Russia's wide ranging national interests 
and ambitions. In the post-Maidan Revolution era, this has led to cyber operations 
primarily centered on Ukraine, the epicenter of Russia’s revanchist geopolitical aims  
over the past decade. However, even with an ongoing war, we have observed the group 
sustain access and espionage operations across North America, Europe, the Middle 
East, Central Asia, and Latin America. Patterns of activity over time indicate that APT44 
is tasked with a range of different strategic priorities and is highly likely seen by the 
Kremlin as a flexible instrument of power capable of serving both enduring and 
emerging intelligence requirements. 

 • APT44 primarily targets government, defense, transportation, energy, media, and civil 
society organizations in Russia’s near abroad. Government bodies and other Critical 
Infrastructure and Key Resources (CIKR) operators in Poland, Kazakhstan, and within 
Russia have frequently been included in the group’s recent targeting. 

 • APT44 has repeatedly targeted Western electoral systems and institutions, including 
those in current and prospective North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member 
countries. As part of this activity, APT44 has attempted to interfere with democratic 
processes in select countries by leaking politically sensitive information and deploying 
malware to access election systems and misreport election data. 

 • In less discriminate operations, Mandiant continues to observe APT44 conduct 

widespread credential theft targeting public and private sector mail servers globally. 
This campaign, which dates back to at least 2019, has targeted various mail 
environments including Exim, Zimbra and Exchange servers across a wide-range  
of industry verticals.  

 • APT44 also frequently targets journalists, civil society organizations, and non-
governmental bodies involved in research or investigations into the Russian 
government. Examples include the 2018 operation targeting the Organization for 
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) for its role in the Novichok poisoning 
investigations and a phishing campaign by an assessed APT44 initial access cluster 
between December 2023 and January 2024 which targeted Bellingcat and other 
investigative journalism entities .

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  5

A Highly Adaptive Adversary 

APT44 is a persistent and operationally mature adversary that uses diverse initial access 
methods ranging from common vectors such as phishing, credential harvesting, and 
known vulnerability exploitation to targeted supply chain compromises. The group 
commonly leverages nonselective initial access vectors that provide wide-ranging 
access to targets of interest, later down-selecting victims of interest for the full spectrum 
of follow-on activity. 

 • APT44 frequently achieves initial access through the exploitation of edge  

infrastructure such as routers and virtual private network (VPN) appliances.  
We have observed the group fulfill a variety of missions from footholds gained 
on network perimeters, including reconnaissance, information theft, downstream 
phishing, and the deployment of wiper malware.

 • Following in the footsteps of ETERNALPETYA (aka NotPetya), APT44 also continues 
to subvert software supply chains for initial access. In one recent case, access to a 
software developer resulted in the downstream compromise of critical infrastructure 
networks in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, followed by the deployment of wiper 
malware to a select victim organization.

 • APT44 is also known to employ unconventional methods to compromise targets of 
interest. As of February 2024, the group continues to leverage trojanized software 
installers distributed via torrents on Ukrainian- and Russian-language forums as 
a means of achieving opportunistic initial access to potential targets of interest. 
Once downloaded, victims of interest are manually flagged by APT44 operators 
with specifics such as the victim organizations or unit names, designating them 
for follow-on exploitation. We have seen these victims receive payloads such as 
DARKCRYSTALRAT (or DCRAT), commodity malware that APT44 has also used  
to target telecommunications entities in Ukraine.  

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  6

Once inside a network, APT44 commonly uses living-off-the-land (LOTL) techniques to further its access, establish persistence,  
and exfiltrate information. The group is also known for its “low-equity” approach to malware delivery that prioritizes open source  
or criminally sourced tools over using its own custom implants.

 • APT44 operates with a high degree of operational security and continuously adapts to circumvent best-practice defensive principles. 
To achieve this outcome, we have seen the group generally adhere to a playbook designed to help scale its operations, limit forensic 
evidence in victim environments, and make post-exploitation activity hard to detect (see Figure 3).

 • Once inside a network, APT44 is highly judicious about deploying its most advanced, and likely most costly to develop, tools.  

When custom malware is needed, APT44 typically deploys lightweight tools that are expendable and do not pose any significant 
attrition to the group’s overall capabilities when used or exposed. 

 • APT44 almost certainly relies on a diverse set of Russian companies and criminal marketplaces to source and sustain its more frequently 

operated offensive capabilities. 

 – Leaked documents from Russian company NTC Vulkan detailed project requirements for a framework used to enable cyber 

operations contracted by APT44’s parent military unit. 

 – We also assess that at least one additional Russian cybersecurity company has provided direct operational support to APT44’s 

operations in Ukraine. 

 – Since Russia’s re-invasion of Ukraine in early 2022, we have observed a relative increase in APT44’s use of tools and bulletproof 
hosting infrastructure acquired from criminal marketplaces. We assess that APT44 has likely long viewed criminally sourced 
tools and infrastructure as a latent pool of disposable capabilities that can be operationalized on short notice without immediate 
attributive links to its past operations. 

1

2

3

4

5

Living on the Edge 

Living off the Land

Going for the GPO

Disrupt and Deny

Telegraphing 
“Success” 

Leveraging compromised 
edge infrastructure  
to gain and regain entry 
into target networks

Using pre-existing 
tools for recon, 
lateral movement and 
information theft on 
target networks, aiming 
to evade detection

Creating persistent, 
privileged access from 
which wipers can be 
deployed using a tried-
and-true script

Deploying “pure”  
wipers and disruptive 
tools to fit a variety of 
scenarios

Amplifying the narrative 
of successful disruption 
via hacktivist personas, 
regardless of the actual 
impact of the operation

 KRIKS | КРИКС 

ITV | ИТВ

IPV | ИПВ

Cryptographic Reconnaissance of Information  
and Communication Systems 

Information-Technical 
Influence / Effects 

Криптографическая Разведка информационно-
Коммуникационных Систем

Информационно-
Техническое 
Воздействие

Information- 
Psychological
Influence / Effects 

Информационно-
Психологические 
Воздействие

Figure 3.  Phases of Activity Commonly Observed in APT44 Operations

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  7

Moscow’s Primary  
Cyber Sabotage Unit 

Over the past decade, APT44 has established itself as Russia’s 
preeminent cyber sabotage unit. As an arm of Russia’s military,  
it has been responsible for the majority of the GRU’s cyber-
enabled sabotage in Ukraine stretching back to the initial 
invasion of the country in 2014. However, APT44’s attack 
operations are not limited to military objectives and also span 
Russia’s wider national interests, such as the Kremlin’s political 
signaling efforts, responses to crises, or intended non-escalatory 
responses to perceived slights to Moscow’s stature in the world. 

 • Since Russia’s re-invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, 

APT44 has been responsible for almost all of the disruptive 
and destructive cyber attacks against Ukrainian CIKRs that 
Mandiant has responded to. We assess with high confidence  
it is the primary cyber attack unit both within the GRU and 
across all Russian state-sponsored cyber units. 

 • Since at least 2015, APT44 has operated and advanced a set 

of attack capabilities intended to disrupt industrial control and 
safety systems with the potential to cause significant physical 
damage. Since Russia’s reinvasion, further advancements 
in APT44’s cyber-physical attack capabilities have been 
observed, including a new variant of Industroyer and Operational 
Technology (OT)-specific living-off-the-land attack capabilities 
abusing a native MicroSCADA binary. While operations to date 
have primarily targeted Ukraine’s energy grid, the underlying 
technologies exploited hold the potential to impact a wider 
range of sectors including railways, seaports, airports,  
and hospitals. 

 • APT44 has also periodically engaged in cyber sabotage 

operations intended to signal bilateral displeasure, retaliate  
for political grievances, or otherwise signal the weight  
of the threat posed by Russia’s cyber program. For example: 

 – In June 2017, APT44 deployed ETERNALPETYA  

(aka NotPetya), a wiper disguised as ransomware,  
timed to coincide with Ukraine’s Constitution Day  
marking its sovereignty and independence from Russia.  

 – In February 2018, APT44 used SOURGRAPES  

(aka OlympicDestroyer) destructive malware against IT 
systems during the opening ceremony of the Pyeongchang 
Olympic Games as likely retaliation for Russia’s doping 
suspension. According to the UK government, preparations 
were also carried out to disrupt the 2020 Summer Olympics 
in Tokyo before they were postponed. 

 – In October 2022, a cluster believed to be APT44 with medium 
confidence deployed PRESSTEA (aka Prestige) ransomware 
against logistics entities in Poland and Ukraine, likely to 
signal its ability to threaten supply lines transiting lethal aid 
to Ukraine. Notably, this operation is a rare instance where 
APT44 has shown a willingness to use a disruptive capability 
intentionally against a NATO member country, and reflects 
the group’s penchant for risk taking. 

Due to its history of aggressive cyber attacks across political 
and military contexts, we judge APT44 to present a persistent, 
high severity threat to governments and critical infrastructure 
operators globally where Russian national interests intersect. 
The threat of future disruptive or destructive cyber operations 
likely extends to individuals or entities involved in war crimes 
investigations or other inquiries into the Russian Federation’s 
transgressions in Ukraine.  

We also judge APT44 to present a significant proliferation  
risk for new cyber attack concepts and methods. Continued 
advancements and in-the-wild use of the group’s information 
technology (IT) and OT cyber attack capabilities have also likely 
lowered the barrier of entry for other state and non-state actors 
to replicate and develop their own cyber attack programs.  
Russia itself is almost certainly alert to and concerned about 
this proliferation risk, as Mandiant has observed Russian 
cybersecurity entities exercise their ability to defend against 
categories of disruptive cyber capabilities originally used by 
APT44 against Ukraine.  

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  8

APT44’s Wartime  
Cyber Operations

APT44 has aggressively pursued a multi-pronged effort to help the Russian military  
gain a wartime advantage with its cyber operations. Of the Russian government-backed 
cyber groups that we have tracked contributing to Russia’s military campaign in Ukraine, 
APT44 has and continues to play the most central role, seeking to advance Moscow’s 
war aims in multiple distinct ways. The group’s operational focus and methods have 
adapted significantly in the second year of the war to support Russia’s evolving theory  
of victory, with increasing emphasis placed on military-relevant targets and tactical 
intelligence collection.  

 • Disruptive Operations: APT44 is responsible for an intensive campaign of cyber 
disruptions stretching from invasion day in February 2022 to present. The group  
has aggressively deployed wiper malware against a mix of civilian and military  
targets, and has attempted to make the effects of the war felt beyond the front  
lines in the day-to-day lives of Ukrainians.

 • Military Enablement: APT44 has also increasingly conducted espionage likely intended 
to enable Russian conventional military operations. These operations appear to focus 
on mobile networks, devices, applications and other technologies that could help to 
intercept communications and gain tactical and operational battlefield advantages.  

 • Information Operations: APT44 has used front personas embedded in the pro-
Russian Telegram ecosystem to attempt to shape the information environment  
and draw attention to the alleged “impact” of select cyber operations.

APT44 Disruptive Tooling

SOURGRAPES

BLACKENERGY

INDUSTROYER

ETERNALPETYA

VPNFILTER

INDUSTROYER.V2

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019-2021

Wartime Operations (2022 - 2023)

Pure Disruptive Cyber Tool

Multifunctional Disruptive Cyber Tool

Disguised as Ransomware

Modified Publicly or Commercially Available Tool

Publicly or Commercially Available Tool

NEARMISS

SDELETE

PARTYTICKET

NIKOWIPER

PRESSTEA

NEARTWIST

JUNKMAIL

CADDYWIPER

ROARBAT

NIKOWIPER.MBR

Figure 4. Categories of Disruptive Malware Used by APT44

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  9

Disruptive Operations Against 
Ukrainian Critical Infrastructure 

Mandiant has tracked an intensive campaign of cyber attacks against Ukrainian  
entities by APT44 that reflect its primary mandate. These disruptive cyber operations 
have surpassed the scale, scope, and intensity of the group’s operations conducted in 
the war’s eight prior years, and have incorporated a wide arsenal of different disruptive 
or destructive malware families.

 • APT44’s disruptive activities have occurred in punctuated phases, mirroring the main 

stages of the war. Gaps between waves of disruptive activity have likely provided 
necessary windows to retool and replenish access to operationally relevant targets.

 • Targets of APT44’s disruptive activity have primarily been government networks  

and critical infrastructure operators, with an emphasis on Ukraine’s energy sector.  
We continue to see malware delivery operations seeking access to energy sector 
targets from a subcluster of APT44 activity tracked by CERT-UA as UAC-0099. 

 • We assess with high confidence that, in specific operations, APT44 has coordinated 
the timing of these cyber attacks with conventional military activity, such as kinetic 
strikes or other forms of sabotage, in order to achieve joint military objectives in 
Ukraine. This repeated pattern of activity indicates either unity of command or 
operational coordination with other elements of Russia’s military.  

 – For example, in October 2022, APT44 disrupted IT and OT systems at a power 

distribution entity in the midst of Russia’s winter campaign of military and drone 
strikes targeting Ukraine’s energy grid. Notably, this activity aligns with Microsoft’s 
independent analysis identifying a similar pattern of coordination between APT44 
and other elements of the Russian military in the same timeframe. 

Mandiant has previously written about APT44’s shift to pure disruptive tools as a 
strategy to sustain its wartime tempo of operations. In furtherance of this arsenal 
management strategy, the second year of the war has seen the group progress from 
“low equity” to “no equity” tooling, abusing common utilities and publicly available tools 
like SDELETE, WinRAR, or native MicroSCADA binaries instead of custom-developed 
tools to achieve disruptive objectives. 

 • As the war has progressed, Mandiant has also observed APT44 rely more heavily 
on open source tooling (e.g. webshells such as WEEVELY and REGEORG.NEO and 
tunnelers such as CHISEL) to gain and further access to networks preceding its 
disruptive activity. 

 • The ready availability of these open source tools, variants of which can be created 
on-demand, has almost certainly provided the group an expendable reserve of new 
malware to cycle into its disruptive operations, helping to trivially replenish variants 
exhausted through prior use. 

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  Six Phases of APT44 Disruptive Operations during the 2022 War in Ukraine

1 0

PHASE I

Cyber  
Espionage and 
Pre-Positioning

PHASE II

Initial  
Destructive  
Cyber  
Operations  
and Military 
Invasion

PHASE III

Sustained 
Targeting and 
Attacks

PHASE IV

PHASE V

Maintaining 
Footholds
 for Strategic 
Advantage

Renewed 
Campaign of 
Disruptive 
Attacks

PHASE VI

Refocus  
on Cyber 
Espionage

N
A
J
-
9
1
0
2

2
2
0
2

R
P
A
–
B
E
F

2
2
0
2

L
U
J
-
Y
A
M

2
2
0
2

P
E
S
–
G
U
A

2
2
0
2

–
2
2
0
2
T
C
O

3
2
0
2
N
A
J

–
3
2
0
2
B
E
F

3
2
0
2
C
E
D

PARTYTICKET

NEARMISS

NEARTWIST

SDELETE

PARTYTICKET

CADDYWIPER

JUNKMAIL

INDUSTROYER.V2, CADDYWIPER, SOLOSHRED, AWFULSHRED

CADDYWIPER

CADDYWIPER

CADDYWIPER

CADDYWIPER

CADDYWIPER

CADDYWIPER, native MicroSCADA binary

CADDYWIPER

PRESSTEA

NIKOWIPER.MBR

NIKOWIPER

Target Industries

Government

Telecom

Financial

Media

Energy

Transportation

Figure 5. APT44 Disruptive Operations Against Ukraine

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 1

 – As noted by Google’s TAG, this operation’s infrastructure 
and tooling also contained derogatory language towards 
Ukrainians, providing a lens into the mindset of APT44’s 
operators as they support Russia’s military campaign.

 • With drones becoming increasingly crucial for battlefield 

success, APT44 has also conducted multiple phishing waves 
targeting organizations involved in drone manufacturing 
and logistics. Conforming with APT44’s tendency to use 
criminally-sourced malware, this activity exploited a known 
WinRAR vulnerability to deliver a SMOKELOADER dropper that 
subsequently loaded RADTHIEF (aka Rhadmanthys Stealer) 
in-memory.

 • We have also observed a surge in APT44 activity focused 

on gaining access to internet service providers and 
telecommunications entities providing mobile connectivity  
to Ukrainian civilians and military personnel. As highlighted  
by CERT-UA, these APT44 operations have periodically been 
used to enable disruptive activity as well.   

 • In August 2023, multiple governments disclosed an additional 
espionage-focused capability, “Infamous Chisel,” operated 
by APT44 to collect information from Android devices, 
including system device information, commercial application 
information, as well as information from applications specific 
to the Ukrainian military. 

Espionage Operations  
for Military Enablement  

In the second year of Russia’s re-invasion, we have also seen  
a relative increase in APT44’s espionage activity to support 
battlefield reconnaissance and other tactical military needs.  
This activity has included an apparent focus on communication 
systems and mobile devices, and is part of a wider transition 
amongst Russian military-linked actors to attempt to collect 
tactically relevant information from networks, devices, and 
applications used by the Ukrainian military.  

 • Extending back to at least April 2023, APT44 has provisioned 

infrastructure for use by likely forward-deployed Russian 
military forces to exfiltrate encrypted Telegram and Signal 
communications from mobile devices captured on  
the battlefield. 

 – Related infrastructure contains step-by-step Russian 
language instructions on how to link the victim’s chat 
applications to actor-controlled infrastructure (See Figure 
7). In order to follow these instructions, an operator would 
almost certainly require physical access to the devices  
being paired. 

 – The infrastructure also contains a link to contact an  

APT44 developer on an actor-controlled Telegram account, 
indicating efforts to provide troubleshooting and support  
to non-technical operators, such as forward deployed 
Russian military units in Ukraine. 

Figure 6. Links and instructions for Signal and Telegram exploitation

Figure 7. APT44 Provisioned Instructions for Linking Signal Accounts via QR Code

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  Information Operations 
Amplifying Cyber Activity

A particular feature of APT44’s approach to cyber operations  
over the years has been its emphasis on attempting to generate 
second-order psychological effects to augment its espionage  
and sabotage activities. These efforts have evolved since 
Russia’s re-invasion of Ukraine, with APT44 leveraging a series 
of front personas primarily on Telegram to publicly claim credit 
for data leaks and disruptive operations. Beyond a crude attempt 
to maximize its operational impact, we assess that these 
follow-on information operations are likely intended by APT44  
to serve multiple wartime objectives. These aims include 
priming the information space with narratives favorable  
to Russia, generating perceptions of popular support for the  
war for domestic and foreign audiences, and making the GRU’s 
cyber capabilities appear more potent through exaggerated 
claims of impact. 

APT44 relies upon conventional information operations methods  
to achieve its wider objectives. The group’s efforts are primarily 
focused on hack-and-leak or attack-and-leak operations, where 
sensitive documents or other “proof” of preceding cyber 
operations are posted primarily to Telegram to draw attention  
to their alleged “impacts”. Consistent with the group’s pre-war 
activity leveraging personas such as Anonymous Poland and 
Guccifer 2.0, APT44 continues to cultivate hacktivist identities  
as assets for its follow-on information operations. It has cycled 
through at least three primary hacktivist-branded Telegram 
channels to claim responsibility for its wartime disruptive 
operations: XakNet Team, CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn1,  
and Solntsepek.

 • We assess that APT44 continues to use these specific  

channels due to their established followings and their positions 
of influence in the wider pro-Russian Telegram ecosystem, 
and suspect that the GRU has played a role in cultivating their 
prominence over time. Although the channels are operated  
in parallel, they do not post the same content concurrently.

 • APT44’s exact relationship and control over each of these 
front personas likely varies. However, we have observed 
the closest operational relationship between APT44 
and CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn (Russian: Народная 
CyberАрмия) and judge that the operators behind APT44  
have the ability to direct and influence CyberArmyofRussia_
Reborn’s activity across multiple platforms. 

1 2

 – Google’s TAG observed CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn’s 
YouTube channel being created from infrastructure 
attributed to APT44. The YouTube channel received minimal 
engagement and was terminated upon identification.

 – Mandiant has observed known APT44 infrastructure 
used to exfiltrate data from victims later leaked in the 
CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn Telegram channel, as well 
as egress to Telegram in close temporal proximity to the 
persona’s posted claims. 

 – In one case, a series of APT44 operator errors resulted in 

CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn’s claims on Telegram preceding 
the network attack they referenced. 

 – These patterns of interaction align with TAG’s assessment 
that CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn is created and controlled  
by APT44.

 – Prior to rebranding as a “hacker group” in 2023 and claiming 

responsibility for APT44 disruptive cyber operations, 
Solntsepek (Russian: Солнцепек) conducted a long-term 
campaign of leaking personally identifiable information from 
Ukrainian military and security personnel, indicating the 
persona’s likely established relationship with the GRU.

 – Mandiant assesses that, since its rebranding, Solntsepek  

has likely been used as a primary vehicle to claim 
responsibility for and leak stolen information from  
APT44 disruptive cyber attacks. 

 – Solntsepek’s posts have mirrored APT44’s operational focus 

in the second year of the war, claiming cyber attacks on 
military-relevant targets more often than previous APT44 
front personas. 

Efforts at follow-on amplification of APT44 associated Telegram 
posts appear to be largely constrained to cross-posting within 
established pro-Russian Telegram communities. For example, 
JokerDNR played a significant role in amplifying Solntsepek  
when the Telegram channel first launched and then again as it 
rebranded into a hacker group. While we have observed limited 
attempts to break into other communities through defacements, 
we suspect the group primarily relies upon organic media 
coverage for reach and credibility rather than investing resources 
to spread its messaging on other platforms. Mandiant does not 
currently attribute the JokerDNR persona to a specific threat 
group or sponsor. 

1 Mandiant had previously attributed XakNet and CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn activity to APT28 based on a case of cohabitation where APT28 and APT44 were both operating in the same 
network. Re-analysis of the relevant incident data allowed us to parse the two sets of overlapping activity and link the CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn-associated intrusion activity to APT44 
with high confidence

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 3

XAKNET

Cyber Army of Russia Reborn (CARR)

Solntsepek

Figure 8. Hacktivist Telegram Personas Associated with APT44

CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn Video Content Claims Manipulation 
of of US and European Critical Infrastructure OT Assets

A majority of the attack-and-leak activity that Mandiant has tracked 
from GRU linked Telegram personas has centered on Ukrainian entities. 
However, CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn’s claimed intrusion activity has 
not been so limited. 

 • Between 17 and 18 January 2024, the group’s Telegram channel 

posted videos taking credit for the manipulation of human machine 
interfaces (HMI) controlling operational technology (OT) assets  
at Polish and U.S. water utilities. 

 • On 02 March 2024, the group posted an additional video claiming  
to disrupt electricity generation at a French hydroelectric facility  
by manipulating water levels. 

 • Each of the videos posted by CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn appear  

to show an actor haphazardly interacting with interfaces controlling 
the respective water or hydroelectric facilities’ OT assets.

Mandiant cannot independently verify the above claimed intrusion 
activity or its links to APT44 at this time. However, we note that officials 
from the affected U.S. utilities later publicly acknowledged incidents at 
entities advertised as victims in the CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn video. 

 • Approximately two weeks after the Telegram post taking credit 

for the U.S. targeting, a local official publicly confirmed a “system 
malfunction” that led to a tank overflowing at one of the claimed 
victim facilities. This activity was reportedly part of a series of cyber 
incidents impacting multiple local U.S. water infrastructure systems 
that stemmed from “vendor software they use that keeps their water 
systems remotely accessible”. 

Figure 9. CyberArmyofRussia_Reborn video screenshot  
showing manual manipulation of well control inputs 

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 4

Takeaways

APT44 continues to present one of the widest and high severity cyber threats globally.  
It has been at the forefront of the threat landscape for over a decade and is responsible 
for a long list of firsts that have set precedents for future cyber attack activity. The 
combination of APT44's high capability, risk tolerance, and far-reaching mandate to 
support Russia’s foreign policy interests places governments, civil society, and CIKR 
operators around the world at risk of falling into the group's sights on short notice. 
Patterns of historical activity, such as efforts to influence elections or retaliate against 
international sporting bodies, suggests there is no limit to the nationalist impulses that 
may fuel the group’s operations in the future. 

Despite its bias for action and emphasis on psychological effect, APT44 has shown  
itself to be patient, resourceful, and able to remain undetected for long periods of time in 
victim environments. The group’s playbook is almost certainly tailored to carry out 
intrusions undetected, and its use of both open source and criminally-sourced malware 
can often result in activity being disregarded as a commodity threat. Organizations  
at high risk of being targeted by APT44 should prioritize detections of LOTL techniques 
and carefully investigate instances of commercially available malware as potential 
APT44 activity. Responses to APT44 should also consider the group’s sensitivity to 
counterintelligence risk. This is an actor that is highly aware of incident response and 
detection efforts, and, in certain cases, mitigation efforts may drive an intrusion toward 
disruptive activity. 

As Russia’s war continues, we anticipate Ukraine will remain the principal focus of 
APT44 operations. However, as history indicates, the group’s readiness to conduct cyber 
operations in furtherance of the Kremlin’s wider strategic objectives globally is ingrained 
in its mandate. We assess that changing Western political dynamics, future elections, 
and emerging issues in Russia’s near abroad will continue to shape APT44’s operations 
for the foreseeable future. 

Protecting The Community

As part of our efforts to combat serious threat actors, TAG uses the results of our 
research to improve the safety and security of Google’s products. Upon discovery,  
all identified websites and domains are added to Safe Browsing to protect users  
from further exploitation. TAG also sends all targeted Gmail and Workspace users 
government-backed attacker alerts notifying them of the activity and encourages 
potential targets to enable Enhanced Safe Browsing for Chrome and ensure that  
all devices are updated. Where possible, Mandiant sends victim notifications via  
the Victim Notification Program. 

To protect high risk user accounts, we offer the Advanced Protection Program (APP), 
which is our highest form of account security and has a strong track record protecting 
users. If you are a Google Chronicle Enterprise+ customer, Chronicle rules were released 
to your Emerging Threats rule pack, and IOCs listed in this report are available for 
prioritization with Applied Threat Intelligence. 

We are committed to sharing our findings with the security community to raise 
awareness, and with companies and individuals that might have been targeted by these 
activities. We hope that improved understanding of tactics and techniques will enhance 
threat hunting capabilities and lead to stronger user protections across the industry.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 5

Technical Annex

APT44 Indicators of Compromise 

For IOCs, please see our VT Collection.

Malware

This section includes malware Mandiant observed APT44 using since 2018, with the exception of ETERNALPETYA (aka NotPetya), 
which was deployed by APT44 in 2017. We have split this section into three: custom malware unique to APT44, malware that is publicly 
or commercially available but modified and customized by APT44, and publicly or commercially available malware used by APT44.

Custom

Malware 

Role

Description

ARGUEPATCH

Launcher

ARGUEPATCH is a malicious launcher that decrypts a file on disk using a trivial XOR algorithm and executes a second stage 
payload in memory.

AXETERROR

Backdoor

AXETERROR is a backdoor written in Go. Upon startup, the malware creates persistence as either a cron job or a system 
startup script. AXETERROR communicates over HTTPS and supports the following commands: update or delete itself, 
download or upload files to C2, execute shell commands, set proxy configuration, update C2, and update beacon interval.

BACKORDER

Downloader

BACKORDER.V2

Downloader

BRUSHPASS

Webshell

BACKORDER is a downloader written in Go which targets Windows machines. It downloads and executes a second stage 
payload from a remote server. BACKORDER is usually delivered within trojanized installer files and is hard coded to execute 
the original setup executable.

BACKORDER.v2 is a downloader written in Go that targets the Windows environment. It downloads and executes a second 
stage payload from a remote server. The malware can set the %TEMP% directory as an excluded folder from Windows 
Defender before downloading a zip file to that folder from its C2 server. The malware unzips the downloaded zip file and 
executes the file inside.

BRUSHPASS is a Webshell written in C# which provides a threat actor with the means to execute commands, alter victim 
firewall configurations, upload files to the victim device, perform directory listing, file deletion and file collection. Additional 
capabilities in some BRUSHPASS samples include the collection of the current page URL as an absolute path, both uploading 
and downloading of files, and opening ports on the victim machine.

CADDYWIPER

Wiper

CADDYWIPER is a disruptive file wiper written in C which enumerates the file system physical drives and overwrites both file 
content and partitions with null bytes. CADDYWIPER has both executable and shellcode variants.

COLDWELL

Dropper

COLDWELL is a dropper written in C that contains an encrypted and embedded payload. Upon execution COLDWELL 
generates a random filename to write an embedded payload, configures persistence, and blends the next-stage timestamp 
with a legitimate file on disk.

EARLYBLOOM

Backdoor

EARLYBLOOM is a backdoor written in C++ that communicates over HTTPS. Supported backdoor commands include shell 
command execution, file transfer, file execution, and uninstall.

EXARAMEL

Backdoor

EXARAMEL is a backdoor that is capable of encrypting and exfiltrating files from a configured directory as well as receiving 
and executing commands from C2. EXARAMEL stores its configuration, structured as XML, in the registry. The configuration 
defines its C2, exfiltration directory, proxy, and beacon interval. EXARAMEL is capable of executing the following tasks: 
launch a process, create a file, upload a file, execute a shell command, and execute a VB Script.

FACEFISH

Dropper

FACEFISH is a dropper, which releases a rootkit, and its main function is determined by the rootkit module, which works at the 
Ring3 layer and is loaded using the LD_PRELOAD feature to steal user login credentials by hooking ssh/sshd program related 
functions. FACEFISH also supports some backdoor functions and supports pretty flexible configuration, uses Diffie-Hellman 
exchange keys, Blowfish encrypted network communication, and targets Linux x64 systems. The main functions of 
FACEFISH are: upload device information, stealing user credentials, bounce Shell and execute arbitrary commands.

FAIRROOT

Dropper

FAIRROOT is a VBScript macro used to deliver an encoded payload usually decoded using a fixed string as a key. FAIRROOT 
is capable of determining if the system is running in a sandbox.

FELIXROOT

Backdoor

FIZZLESHELL

Webshell

FELIXROOT is a memory-only DLL backdoor that is capable of system reconnaissance, data exfiltration, and remote code 
execution. All communications, including exfiltrated data, are AES-encrypted with one of two hard-coded public keys, and 
sent back to the C2 server via HTTP or HTTPS.

FIZZLESHELL is a PHP webshell that employs well written cryptographic code to obfuscate three supported commands. 
These commands are invoked by setting a cookie to a specific value. FIZZLESHELL sends its HTTP(S) POST data with the 
content of a MIME message to a hardcoded C2 server.

FREETOW

Memory-Only 
Dropper

FREETOW is an in-memory dropper for a shellcode payload. FREETOW has been identified as a payload patched into 
legitimate Microsoft applications. FREETOW contains an anti-emulation technique where it requires the first character of the 
command line argument to be "z" otherwise the application will crash. FREETOW has been identified loading a custom variant 
of METASPLOIT. 

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 6

GOGETTER

Tunneler

GOGETTER is a tunneler written in Go that proxies communications for its C2 server using the open-source library Yamux 
over TLS.

ICYWELL

Backdoor

ICYWELL is a backdoor written in C++ that gives a threat actor a reverse shell, executes arbitrary commands, can write and 
read files, and in some instances updates itself on host.

ILLICITORDER

Dropper

ILLICITORDER is a dropper written in C++ which contains an XOR and Base64-encoded second stage payload. Upon 
execution, ILLICITORDER drops the second stage payload to disk and executes it alongside a legitimate installer. 
ILLICITORDER is usually embedded into trojanized software installation media.

INDUSTROYER

Disruptive 
Malware 
Framework

INDUSTROYER is a modular malware framework that is designed to survey and manipulate power grid control systems. 
Included in the framework are four modules that issue commands to open (and close) circuit breakers, a wiper module 
designed to search for and overwrite several control system specific files, and a SIPROTEC DoS module.

ITCHYSPARK

Utility

ITCHYSPARK is a lateral movement tool used to deploy the NEARMISS wiper. ITCHYSPARK enumerates the local network via 
various APIs, attempts an SMB connection, and is capable of port scanning.

ITCHYSPARK.SMB

Utility

ITCHYSPARK.SMB is a lateral movement tool used to copy an executable to a remote SMB server, and to execute the file.

ITCHYSPARK.SMB

Utility

ITCHYSPARK.WMI is a lateral movement tool used to copy an executable to a remote path, and execute the file as a Windows 
service or a standard process via WMI/COM.

JUNKMAIL

Wiper

JUNKMAIL is a .NET wiper which uses an unknown obfuscator and junk code to obfuscate control flow. JUNKMAIL 
enumerates each domain controller under the domain as well as drives, their respective directories, and files. It wipes files by 
overwriting them with null bytes.

LUCKYPIE

Launcher

LUCKYPIE  is a launcher that loads and executes a DLL from its resource section. The malware is embedded into the zlib 
library code and exports many zlib functions.

NEARMISS

Wiper

NEARMISS is a master boot record (MBR) wiper that disables the Shadow Volume Copy and CrashDumps before wiping the 
MBR. After successful execution, the wiper will initiate a system shutdown, rendering the targeted device inoperable.

NEARTWIST

Wiper

NEARTWIST is a disruptive file wiper written in C which enumerates the device’s physical drives and attempts to wipe them 
either directly or through overwriting the content of each file using data obtained from a pseudorandom number generator.

NEWRETURN

Memory-Only 
Dropper

NEWRETURN is an in-memory .Net dropper which contains an embedded binary that is decompressed and executed as the 
main functionality of this malware family. Some identified samples are padded with a huge number of null bytes, likely to 
make this sample infeasible for submission to automated analysis tools.

NIKOWIPER

Wiper 

NIKOWIPER.MBR

Wiper

PARTYTICKET

Wiper

PENNYBAG

Dropper

NIKOWIPER  is a disruptive tool written in C that contains an embedded SysInternal's SDelete executable that is used to 
delete files on disk.

NIKOWIPER.MBR is a disruptive tool written in C that contains an embedded SysInternal's SDelete executable that is used to 
delete files on disk.  NIKOWIPER.MBR contains additional functionality that wipes the Master Boot Record on victim devices.

PARTYTICKET is a disruptive file wiper written in Go that enumerates the file system and selects files to wipe based on the 
file extension. PARTYTICKET will then encrypt the content of the files with AES.

PENNYBAG is a malicious macro dropper used to decode and write a payload to disk. Encoded payloads are stored as a 
series of byte arrays. PENNYBAG has historically been used to distribute BLACKENERGY.V2 and V3 and STRAYKEY in 
targeted attacks.

PRESSTEA

Ransomware

PRESSTEA is ransomware written in C++ that encrypts local files. Observed extensions for encrypted files include “.enc”. 
PRESSTEA uses wbadmin to delete the backup catalog on a computer then wipes the volume shadow copies.

QUICKTOW

Backdoor

QUICKTOW is a lightweight backdoor written in Go that communicates via HTTP. Its supported backdoor commands include 
command execution, opening a new session, and disconnecting. QUICKTOW can also connect to other instances of the 
backdoor to forward commands.

ROARBAT

Wiper

ROARBAT is a batch disruptive wiper responsible for enumerating drives and directories and using WinRAR to delete data.

SOURGRAPES

Disruptive 
Malware

SOURGRAPES is a disruptive malware which is responsible for destroying files on network shares and disabling all services 
on a victim system.

SHARPCOFFEE

Downloader

SHARPCOFFEE is a downloader written in JavaScript which retrieves payloads via HTTP. Downloaded payloads are executed 
from memory using a PowerShell sub-process, and console output is uploaded to a remote server via HTTP. SHARPCOFFEE 
has been observed being delivered via SHARPIVORY, and subsequently downloading SHARPENTRY.

SHARPCOFFEE.
VBS

Downloader

SHARPCOFFEE.VBS is a Windows downloader written in Visual Basic used to download other malware and upload data via 
Powershell.

SHARPENTRY

Downloader

SHARPIVORY

Dropper

SPAREPART

Backdoor

SHARPENTRY is a downloader written in C that retrieves payloads via TCP. Details of the remote server are provided as 
command-line arguments. Payloads are decoded and mapped into memory, with the entry-point being determined at run-time. 
SHARPENTRY has been observed being deployed via SHARPCOFFEE and subsequently deploying METERPRETER.

SHARPIVORY is a dropper written in .NET that writes an embedded payload to disk and establishes persistence via scheduled 
tasks. The dropper also drops and opens a decoy Microsoft Office Word document. SHARPIVORY has been observed 
dropping SHARPCOFFEE.

SPAREPART is a lightweight backdoor written in C that uses the device's UUID as a unique identifier for communications with 
the C2. Upon successful connection to a C2, SPAREPART will download the tasking and execute it through a newly created 
process.

SWEETTREAT

Utility

SWEETTREAT is a utility service which provides cryptographic functionality upon request via a named pipe or RPC. 
SWEETTREAT appears to represent a class of functionality that is uncommon.

VPNFILTER

Backdoor

VPNFILTER is a modular backdoor capable of a variety of commands and can extend functionality through the use of plugins.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 7

Modified Publicly or Commercially Available

Malware 

Role

Description

BLACKENERGY

Backdoor

HEXCHAMBER

Builder

ETERNALPETYA

Wiper

POWERDISCO

Utility

TANKTRAP

Utility

WILDDIME

Backdoor

Early BLACKENERGY malware variants were used to create distributed denial-of-service (DDoS)-focused botnets and have 
since evolved over time. Variants of BLACKENERGY, BLACKENERGY.V2 and BLACKENERGY.V3, are modular backdoors 
which have the ability to download additional conditional modules to targeted machines. BLACKENERGY.V2 and 
BLACKENERGY.V3 samples used by Sandworm only utilized modules to conduct espionage. Often configured to 
communicate with two C2 servers, these BLACKENERGY variants contain basic capabilities such as victim profiling, updating 
its configuration block, downloading and executing files, downloading and loading plugins, unloading and deleting plugins, 
and uninstalling the backdoor. 

HEXCHAMBER is a custom implementation of open-source project, Malicious Macro Generator (MMG). The variation of this 
macro breaks encoded strings into binary and hex-based counterparts and  concatenates them into an encoded command 
string later decoded with a constant. HEXCHAMBER has been used to distribute PowerShell Empire.

Petya is ransomware family that is atypical in that the malware does not encrypt individual files on victims' systems, but 
instead overwrites the master boot record (MBR) and encrypts the master file table (MFT), which renders the system 
inoperable until the ransom has been paid. The malware contains a dropper, custom boot loader, and a small Windows kernel 
that executes additional encryption routines. The ETERNALPETYA variant of PETYA is a disruption tool capable of encrypting 
files, encrypting the MBR, installing a bootkit, extracting credentials, performing lateral movement, and remote exploitation 
via known vulnerabilities.

POWERDISCO is a Windows PowerShell script that has the capability to enumerate Group Policies Objects (GPO) using the 
Active Directory Service Interface (ADSI). It may only be able to find policies linked to the Root domain. POWERDISCO may 
have been sourced from a blog post by Medium user @pentesttas called “Discover Hidden GPO(s) on Active Directory using 
PS>ADSI” and then modified by the attacker. 

TANKTRAP is a utility written in PowerShell that utilizes Windows group policy to spread and launch a wiper. TANKTRAP has 
been observed being used with NEARMISS, SDELETE, PARTYTICKET, and CADDYWIPER. TANKTRAP is likely inspired by 
public projects like SharpGPOAbuse and PowerGPOAbuse.

WILDDIME is a PowerShell backdoor capable of downloading, uploading and executing files. WILDDIME has been identified 
deployed via a LNK file and is responsible for opening a decoy document. WILDDIME is a modified variant of the public tool 
HTTP-Shell, a tool developed by the developer JoelGMSec.

Publicly or Commercially Available

Malware 

Role

Description

BEACON

Backdoor

COLIBRI

Downloader

DARKCRYSTALRAT

Backdoor

EMPIRE

Framework

BEACON is a backdoor written in C/C++ that is part of the Cobalt Strike framework. Supported backdoor commands include 
shell command execution, file transfer, file execution, and file management. BEACON can also capture keystrokes and 
screenshots as well as act as a proxy server. BEACON may also be tasked with harvesting system credentials, port scanning, 
and enumerating systems on a network. BEACON communicates with a C2 server via HTTP or DNS.

COLIBRI is an evasive, nimble and highly obfuscated C++ Win32 downloader that primarily downloads and executes 
second-stage implants or malware in-memory, COLIBRI is able to load arbitrary binary files and persist on victim systems. 
COLIBRI communicates with its Command-and-Control (C2) server using TLS over port 443 with communications 
Base64-encoded and RC4-encrypted.

DARKCRYSTALRAT is a .NET-based backdoor that communicates via HTTP. Its capabilities include remote desktop, file 
transfer, file execution, and shell command execution. DARKCRYSTALRAT can also capture audio, screenshots, keystrokes, 
and camera images. Credentials stored by browsers and FTP clients are also targeted. DARKCRYSTALRAT can also compile 
and execute arbitrary C# code.

EMPIRE is a post-exploitation framework written in PowerShell. EMPIRE is commonly used to generate a stager payload, 
which is responsible for downloading and executing the framework's backdoor. The backdoor communicates via HTTP and 
HTTPS. Supported backdoor commands include shell command execution, PowerShell execution, and file transfer. The 
EMPIRE backdoor can also be extended via plugins. Supported plugins include remote desktop, screenshot capture, 
keylogging, lateral movement, credential theft, and reconnaissance.

EMPYRE

Framework

EMPYRE is a pen-testing framework that is an OSX/Linux targeted tool inspired by Powershell Empire.

METASPLOIT

Framework

METERPRETER

Backdoor

METASPLOIT is a penetration testing framework whose features include vulnerability testing, network enumeration, payload 
generation and execution, and defense evasion. The framework contains exploits for numerous applications and popular 
operating systems such as Windows, Linux, and macOS. METASPLOIT is commonly used to generate a stager payload, 
which is responsible for downloading and executing the framework's METERPRETER backdoor.

METERPRETER is a backdoor written in C that communicates via HTTP, HTTPS, or a custom binary protocol over TCP. 
Supported commands include reverse shell, file transfer, file execution, keylogging, and screenshot capture. METERPRETER 
is generated by the METASPLOIT framework.

METERPRETER.
PYTHON

Backdoor

METERPRETER.PYTHON is Python implementation of METERPRETER. This version provides an in-memory Python 
interpreter capable of loading Python scripts and running adhoc Python commands.

PASWEB

Webshell

PASWEB is the publicly available P.A.S. PHP webshell.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  1 8

PIVOTNACCI

Tunneler

POSHC2

Framework

PIVOTNACCI is an open-source tunneler tool which allows pivot into the internal network by deploying HTTP agents. 
PIVOTNACCI allows the creation of a SOCKS server which communicates with HTTP agents. This tool was inspired by 
another open-source tunneler REGEORG. However, it includes some improvement, including support for balanced servers, 
customizable polling intervals, auto-dropping connections closed by a server or password-protected agents.

POSHC2 is a proxy-aware C2 framework used to aid penetration testers with red teaming, post-exploitation, and lateral 
movement. POSHC2 generates PowerShell, .NET, and Python backdoor payloads that communicate via HTTP or HTTPS. 
Supported backdoor commands include screenshot capture, keystroke capture, standard shell and PowerShell command 
execution, file transfer, and file execution. POSHC2 also supports collecting system credentials using a MIMIKATZ payload 
and can act as a proxy server.

PWNKIT

Exploit

PWNKIT is an implementation of CVE-2021-4034, used for privilege escalation.

RADTHIEF

Infostealer

RADTHIEF, AKA "Rhadamanthys Stealer", is a C++ based infostealer malware. RADTHIEF collects information including the 
computer name, username, system information, network information, installed programs, screenshots taken by the malware, 
browser data, and crypto wallet data.

REGEORG

Tunneler

REGEORG is an open-source utility used to tunnel webshell traffic.

REGEORG.NEO

Tunneler

REGEORG.NEO is an open-source utility used to tunnel webshell traffic via SOCKS proxies. It is a refactored/updated fork of 
the open-source REGEORG project.

REMCOM

Utility

SMOKELOADER

Downloader

REMCOM is a lateral movement tool written in C/C++ that reimplements the logic of the Sysinternals PsExec application. 
REMCOM supports creating an interactive command prompt on a remote system as well as executing files and shell 
commands. It can also be used to copy files to a remote system.

SMOKELOADER is a downloader that retrieves additional payloads via HTTP. Retrieved payloads are mapped into memory 
and may include plugins that expand SMOKELOADER's functionality. Capabilities added via plugins include keylogging, 
credential theft, and DDoS. 

STOWAWAY

Backdoor

STOWAWAY is a publicly available backdoor and proxy. The project supports several types of communication like ssh, 
SOCKS5. Backdoor component supports upload and download of files, remote shell and basic information gathering.

WARZONE

Backdoor

WEEVELY

Webshell

WMIEXEC

Backdoor

WSO

Webshell

WARZONE is a backdoor written in C++ that communicates via a custom protocol over TCP. Its capabilities include video and 
screenshot capture, remote desktop, keylogging, file transfer, file execution, and reverse shell creation. WARZONE can also 
extract credentials stored by web browsers, email clients, and the Windows Credential Manager.

WEEVELY is an open-source, small and polymorphic PHP webshell that can be extended over the network at runtime. It has 
more than 30 modules to assist administrative tasks, maintain access, provide situational awareness, elevate privileges, and 
spread into the target network.

WMIEXEC is a lightweight backdoor written in VBScript that utilizes Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to execute 
shell commands or create a reverse shell on a remote system. The remote system's hostname or IP address is specified via a 
command-line argument. WMIEXEC creates a file share on the remote system to store command output.

WSO is a PHP-based webshell that functions as a backdoor. Supported backdoor commands include shell command 
execution, reverse shell, file transfer, arbitrary PHP code execution, SQL database management, and file management. WSO 
requires a password to operate.

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  APT44 Related Hunting Rules

Malware 

Hunting Rule

rule M_APT_Downloader_BACKORDER_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "This rule is designed to detect on events related to BACKORDER. BACKORDER is a downloader written in GoLang which 
download and executes a second stage payload from a remote server. BACKORDER is usually delivered within trojanized installer files and is hard 
coded to execute the original setup executable."

1 9

BACKORDER

strings:
        $go = "Go build ID:" ascii wide
        $a1 = "main.proc1esar" 
        $a2 = "main.obt_zip"
        $a3 = "main.un1_zip"
        $a4 = "main.primer1_paso"

    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 10MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Downloader_BACKORDER_2
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects strings and sleep timer in the BACKORDER downloader"

BACKORDER

    strings:
        $ = "data/setup.exe" 
        $ = "http://" 
        $ = {c7 04 ?? 00 CA 9A 3B C7 44 ?? 04 00 00 00 00 e8} // Sleep timer

NIKOWIPER

    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 10MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Disrupt_NIKOWIPER_1 
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects code in NIKOWIPER"
    strings:
        $ = "SDelete"
        $ = "-accepteula -r -s -q " wide
        $ = {68 ?? ?? 02 00 68 }
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 2MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Disrupt_NIKOWIPER_2
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "NikoWiper unique strings"

NIKOWIPER.MBR

$sdelete = "SDelete is set for %d pass" ascii wide

  strings:

$dlihost = {77 00 73 00 [3] 5C 00 53 00 [3] 79 00 73 00 [3] 74 00 65 00 [3] 6D 00 33 00 [3] 32 00 5C 00 [3] 63 00 6D 00 [3] 64 
[3] 64 00 6F 00 [3] 77 00 73 00 [3] 5C 00 64 00 [3] 6C 

00 2E 00 [3] 65 00 78 00 [3] 65 00 00 00 [3] 43 00 3A 00 [3] 5C 00 57 00 [3] 69 00 6E 00 
00 49 00 [3] 68 00 6F 00 [3] 73 00 74 00 [3] 2E 00 65 00 [3] 78 00 65 00}
  condition:

uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 2MB and all of them

}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
2 0

NIKOWIPER.MBR

rule M_APT_Disrupt_NIKOWIPER_MBR_1 
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects code in NIKOWIPER.MBR"
    strings:
        $ = {FF 37 FF 15 [4] 8B 4D F8}
        $ = {69 C0 60 EA 00 00 50 FF 15}
        $ = {8D 85 90 FB FF FF 68 00 02 00 00 50 E8}
        $ = {68 ?? ?? 02 00 68 [4] 56 FF 15}
        $ = {68 00 00 07 00 57 FF D0}
        $ = {8B B5 9C FB FF FF C1 E6 04}
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 2MB and all of them
}

rule M_Hunting_Windows_Powershell_CharSubstitutionFunction_1
{
  meta:

author="Mandiant"
description="Finds a function that does a character substitution"

REGEORG.NEO

  strings:

$func_strTr =  

/public\sString.{1,100}\(string\s.{1,100},\sstring\s.{1,100},\sstring\s.{1,100}\)\s*\{\s*String\s[\w\d_]+\s?=\s?\"\";\s*for\(int\s[\w\d_]+=0;\s?[\w\d_
]+\<\s?[\w\d_]+\.Length;\s?[\w\d_]+\+\+\)\s*\{\s*int\s[\w\d_]+\s?=\s?[\w\d_]+\.IndexOf\([\w\d_]+\[[\w\d_]+\]\);\s*if\
([\w\d_]+\s?!=\s?-\d\)\s*[\w\d_]+\s?\+=\s?[\w\d_]+\[[\w\d_]+\];\s*else\s*[\w\d_]+\s?\+=\s?[\w\d_]+\[[\w\d_]+\];\s*\}\s*return\s[\w\d_]+;\s*\}/is
  condition:

filesize < 2MB and all of them

}

rule M_Hunting_Windows_Powershell_HTTPHeaderParsing_1
{
  meta:

REGEORG.NEO

  strings:

author="Mandiant"
description="Finds powershell 1-liners typically used in webshells to decode an HTTP header variable and use it as a command"

$httpParser1 = /getstring\(convert\.frombase64string\(([\w\d_]+)?\(request\.headers\.get\(['"][\w\d_]+['"]/ ascii wide nocase

  condition:

filesize < 2MB and all of them

}

rule M_Hunting_REGEORG_Tunneller_Generic_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $s1 = "System.Net.IPEndPoint"
        $s2 = "Response.AddHeader"
        $s3 = "Request.InputStream.Read"
        $s4 = "Request.Headers.Get"
        $s5 = "Response.Write"
        $s6 = "System.Buffer.BlockCopy"
        $s7 = "Response.BinaryWrite"
        $s8 = "SocketException soex"
    condition:
        filesize < 1MB and 7 of them
}

REGEORG.NEO

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 1

BRUSHPASS

NEWRETURN

rule M_APT_Webshell_BRUSHPASS_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects the string in the BRUSHPASS webshell"

    strings:
        $ = ".DataSource = "
        $ = "<%@ Page Language=" 
        $ = "RedirectStandardOutput = true;"
        $ = "UseShellExecute = false;"
        $ = ".WindowStyle = ProcessWindowStyle.Hidden;"
        $ = " -Direction inbound -Profile Any -Action Allow -LocalPort"

    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Dropper_NEWRETURN_2 
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects strings in the NEWRETURN payloads"

    strings:
        $a1 = "GetLists"
        $a2 = "GetBuffer"
        $a3 = "Delays"
        $a4 = "InvokeMember"
        $a5 = "Array"
        $o1 = {1f 8b 08 00 00 00 00 00 04 00}
        $o2 = "http://"
        $a6 = "Form1"
        $a7 = "mscoree.dll"

    condition:
        all of ($a*) and ($o1 or $o2)
}

rule M_APT_Dropper_ILLICITORDER_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects code segments in the ILLICITORDER dropper"

ILLICITORDER

    strings:
        $push_8nn = {41 B8 3? 03 00 00 48 8B}
        $mov_8nn = {49 8B 9D 3B 03 00 00}
        $string_autorun = {C7 [3] 4f 66 66 69 C7 [3] 63 65 5c 41 c7 [3] 55 54 4f 52 c7 [3] 55 4e 2e 65 c7 [3] 78 65}
        $xor_13 = {B8 4F EC C4 4E F7 E9 C1 FA 02 8B C2 C1 E8 1F 03 D0 6B D2 0D 8B C1 2B C2}
        $xor_13_2 = {B9 0D 00 00 00 F7 F9 8B C2}
        $import_CryptStringToBinaryA = "CryptStringToBinaryA\x00"
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and filesize < 10MB and ($push_8nn or $string_autorun or $mov_8nn) and ($xor_13 or $xor_13_2) and $import_
CryptStringToBinaryA
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm          
2 2

SPAREPART

rule M_APT_Backdoor_SPAREPART_Strings
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects the PDB and a struct used in SPAREPART"
    strings:
        $pdb = "c:\\Users\\user\\Desktop\\ImageAgent\\ImageAgent\\PreAgent\\src\\builder\\agent.pdb" ascii nocase
        $struct = { 44 89 ac ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 4? 8b ac ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 4? 83 c5 28 89 84 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 89 8c ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 89 54 ?? ?? 44 89 44 ?? ?? 44 89 4c 
?? ?? 44 89 54 ?? ?? 44 89 5c ?? ?? 89 5c ?? ?? 89 7c ?? ?? 89 74 ?? ?? 89 6c ?? ?? 44 89 74 ?? ?? 44 89 7c ?? ?? 44 89 64 ?? ?? 8b 84 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 44 
8b c8 8b 84 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 44 8b c0 4? 8d 15 ?? ?? ?? ?? 4? 8b cd ff 15 ?? ?? ?? ??  }
    condition:
       (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D) and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and
       $pdb and
       $struct and
       filesize < 20KB
}

rule M_APT_Backdoor_SPAREPART_SleepGenerator
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects the algorithm used to determine the next sleep timer"

SPAREPART

    strings:
        $ = {C1 E8 06 89 [5] C1 E8 02 8B}
        $ = {c1 e9 03 33 c1 [3] c1 e9 05 33 c1 83 e0 01}
        $ = {8B 80 FC 00 00 00}
        $ = {D1 E8 [4] c1 E1 0f 0b c1}
    condition:
        all of them
}

QUICKTOW

rule M_APT_Backdoor_QUICKTOW_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Hunting rule looking for QUICKTOW by strings."
    strings:
        $useragent = {4d 6f 7a 69 6c 6c 61 2f 35 2e 30 20 28 57 69 6e 64 6f 77 73 20 4e 54 20 31 30 2e 30 3b 20 57 4f 57 36 34 29 20 41 70 70 6c 65 
57 65 62 4b 69 74 2f 35 33 37 2e 33 36 20 28 4b 48 54 4d 4c 2c 20 6c 69 6b 65 20 47 65 63 6b 6f 29 20 43 68 72 6f 6d 65 2f 31 30 31 2e 30 2e 34 
39 35 31 2e 35 34 20 53 61 66 61 72 69 2f 35 33 37 2e 33 36}
        $s1 = "NewErgoClientSessions" ascii nocase 
        $s2 = "SetDisconnected" ascii nocase 
        $s3 = "IsDisconnected" ascii nocase 
        $s4 = "getDelay" ascii nocase
        $s5 = "setDelay" ascii nocase
        $s6 = "getMessagesFromServer" ascii nocase
        $s7 = "getOneMessageFromServer" ascii nocase
        $s8 = "getMessagesFromServer" ascii nocase

    condition:
       ((uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) or uint16(0) == 0x457f)  and filesize < 20MB and $useragent and  (6 of ($s*))
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  2 3

rule M_APT_Backdoor_QUICKTOW_2
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Function names matching QUICKTOW"

  strings:

$go = "Go build" ascii wide
$str1 = "main.(*Client).Auth" ascii wide
$str2 = "main.(*Client).Disconnect" ascii wide
$str3 = "main.(*Client).Disconnect.func1" ascii wide
$str4 = "main.(*Client).IsDisconnected" ascii wide
$str5 = "main.(*Client).MakeMessage" ascii wide
$str6 = "main.(*Client).NewErgoClientSessions" ascii wide
$str7 = "main.(*Client).NewHTTPHandler" ascii wide
$str8 = "main.(*Client).NewSession" ascii wide
$str9 = "main.(*Client).ProcessingMessages" ascii wide
$str10 = "main.(*Client).RandomSleep" ascii wide
$str11 = "main.(*Client).SetDisconnected" ascii wide
$str12 = "main.(*Client).getDelay" ascii wide
$str13 = "main.(*Client).getMessagesFromServer" ascii wide
$str14 = "main.(*Client).getOneMessageFromServer" ascii wide
$str15 = "main.(*Client).setDelay" ascii wide
$str16 = "main.(*ErgoHTTPHandler).Lock" ascii wide
$str17 = "main.(*ErgoHTTPHandler).Unlock" ascii wide
$str18 = "main.(*ErgoHTTPHandler).doRequest" ascii wide
$str19 = "main.(*Session).IsAlive" ascii wide
$str20 = "main.(*Session).Lock" ascii wide
$str21 = "main.(*Session).MakeMessage" ascii wide
$str22 = "main.(*Session).ResetAlive" ascii wide
$str23 = "main.(*Session).SetAlive" ascii wide
$str24 = "main.(*Session).Unlock" ascii wide
$str25 = "main.(*Session).getDelay" ascii wide
$str26 = "main.(*Session).getMessagesForSession" ascii wide
$str27 = "main.(*Session).getOneMessageForSession" ascii wide
$str28 = "main.(*Session).handle" ascii wide
$str29 = "main.(*Session).handle.func1" ascii wide
$str30 = "main.(*Session).processingMessage" ascii wide
$str31 = "main.(*Session).setDelay" ascii wide
$str32 = "main.(*Sessions).Add" ascii wide
$str33 = "main.(*Sessions).Range" ascii wide
$str34 = "main.GetHash" ascii wide
$str35 = "main.NewAddress" ascii wide
$str36 = "main.NewClient" ascii wide

QUICKTOW

  condition:

(uint16(0) == 0x5a4d or uint16(0) == 0x457f) and filesize < 20MB and $go and 30 of ($str*)

}

rule M_APT_Backdoor_EARLYBLOOM_1 
{
  meta:
    author = "Mandiant"
    description = "Code blocks indicative of EARLYBLOOM."
  strings:
    $code1 = { 8B 4D ?? 3B 4D ?? 73 24 8B 55 ?? 8B 45 ?? 8B 0A 33 48 ?? 8B 55 ?? 89 0A 8B 45 ?? 83 C0 ?? 89 45 ?? 8B 4D ?? 83 C1 ?? 89 4D ?? EB CB 
} 
    $code2 = { 83 7D ?? 00 7C 20 8B 45 ?? 83 E0 ?? 83 E8 ?? F7 D0 89 45 ?? 8B 4D ?? D1 E9 8B 55 ?? 23 55 ?? 33 CA 89 4D ?? EB D1 } 
  condition:
    uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and all of them
}

EARLYBLOOM

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rule M_APT_Backdoor_EARLYBLOOM_2
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Hunting rule looking for EARLYBLOOM, a backdoor written in C++ that communicates over HTTPS."

2 4

EARLYBLOOM

    strings:
        $a1 = "bsd.bst" xor
        $a2 = "bat.bdt" xor
        $a3 = "chkdsk.exe" xor
        $a4 = "Windows check disk" xor
        $a5 = "https://" xor

TANKTRAP

TANKTRAP

    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and filesize <300KB and 3 of ($a*)

}

rule M_Hunting_TANKTRAP_XML_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Strings associated TANKTRAP XML GPO policy"
    strings:
        $r1 = /ImmediateTask clsid=\"\{9F030D12-DDA3-4C26-8548-B7CE9151166A\}\" name=\"[a-zA-Z]{5}\"/
    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and all of them
}

rule M_Hunting_TANKTRAP_PS1_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
               description = "Strings associated TANKTRAP PowerShell"
    strings:
    $s1 = "ImmediateTaskV2 clsid = \"{9756B581-76EC-4169-9AFC-0CA8D43ADB5F}\""
    $s2 = "SharpGPOAbuse"
    $s3 = "GuidExtension \"AADCED64-746C-4633-A97C-D61349046527\""
    $s4 = "ImmediateTaskV2 clsid = \"\"{9756B581-76EC-4169-9AFC-0CA8D43ADB5F}\""
    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and 3 of them
}

rule M_APT_Launcher_ARGUEPATCH_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Identifies the code used by the sleep functionality in ARGUEPATCH"

ARGUEPATCH

    strings:
        $ = {2b ?? 81 f? 00 2E 93 02} 
        $ = {83 C0 18 6B C0 3C [5-12] 69 C0 60 EA 00 00}
        $ = {68 00 DD 6D 00}

    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and all of them
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  2 5

rule M_APT_Launcher_ARGUEPATCH_2
{
  meta:
    description = "To detect executable with patched function used to load encrypted shellcode"
    author = "Mandiant"
  strings:
    /*
    XOR loop:
    .text:004719C6          xor_loop:                               ; CODE XREF: PATCHED+468
    .text:004719C6 8A 01                    mov     al, [ecx]       ; 8A 01
    .text:004719C8 33 D2                    xor     edx, edx        ; 33 D2
    .text:004719C8
    .text:004719CA
    .text:004719CA          xor_loop_inner:                         ; CODE XREF: PATCHED+45F
    .text:004719CA 8B 7D F8                 mov     edi, [ebp+String] ; 8B 7D ??
    .text:004719CD 32 04 57                 xor     al, [edi+edx*2] ; 32 04 57
    .text:004719D0 42                       inc     edx             ; 42
    .text:004719D1 88 01                    mov     [ecx], al       ; 88 01
    .text:004719D3 83 FA 10                 cmp     edx, 16         ; 83 FA 10
    .text:004719D6 72 F2                    jb      short xor_loop_inner ; 72 F2
    .text:004719D6
    .text:004719D8 FF 4D FC                 dec     [ebp+var_4]     ; FF 4D ??
    .text:004719DB 41                       inc     ecx             ; 41
    .text:004719DC 39 5D FC                 cmp     [ebp+var_4], ebx ; 39 5D ??
    .text:004719DF 75 E5                    jnz     short xor_loop  ; 75 E5
    */
    $xor_loop = {8A 01 33 D2 8B 7D ?? 32 04 57 42 88 01 83 FA 10 72 F2 FF 4D ?? 41 39 5D ?? 75 E5}

  condition:
    (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and
    $xor_loop
}

rule M_APT_Launcher_ARGUEPATCH_3
{
    meta:
        description = "arguepatch malware family"

    strings:
        $p00_0 = {85ff74??83ff??75??33db8bfbeb??a1[4]6a}
        $p00_1 = {8a064684c075??2bf23bf35e73??51}
        $p01_0 = {2bc183e0??3d[4]72??8b51??83c0??2bca83c1??83f9}
        $p01_1 = {75??eb??803d[5]74??cc68[4]e8[4]803d[5]74}
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and
        (
            ($p00_0 in (92000..99000) and $p00_1 in (640..8300))
                or
            ($p01_0 in (170000..190000) and $p01_1 in (140000..160000))
        )
}

rule M_APT_Dropper_FREETOW_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $hex49_add_arg_check = { 83 C1 49 88 08 FF D0 }
        $shell32_stack_string = { C7 ( 41 | 42 | 43 | 45 | 46 | 47 ) ?? 73 68 65 6C C7 ( 41 | 42 | 43 | 45 | 46 | 47 ) ?? 6C 33 32 2E C7 ( 41 | 42 | 43 | 45 | 46 | 
47 ) ?? 64 6C 6C 00 }
    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and all of them
}

ARGUEPATCH

ARGUEPATCH

FREETOW

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  2 6

FREETOW

FREETOW

FREETOW

rule M_APT_Dropper_FREETOW_2
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $push_ror13_api_hash_getcommandlinew = { 68 55 CE E0 2E }
        $push_ror13_api_hash_loadlibrary = { 68 4C 77 26 07 }
        $push_ror13_api_hash_virtualalloc = { 68 58 A4 53 E5 }
        $ror13_api_hash_commandlinetoargw = { 11 4B AF 1C }
    condition:
        filesize < 5MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Dropper_FREETOW_3
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $func_args1 = { 6A 40 68 00 10 00 00 6A 10 6A 00 }
        $func_args2 = { 6A 40 68 00 10 00 00 68 00 00 40 00 6A 00 }
    condition:
        all of them
}

rule M_APT_Dropper_FREETOW_4
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Patched ftp with shellcode, run with z option to launch."
    strings:
        $h1 = {0FB70983 C1498808 FFD0}
//  0F B7 09 movzx ecx, word ptr [ecx]
//  83 C1 49 add ecx, 49h ; 'I'
//  88 08 mov [eax], cl
//  FF D0 call eax
        $h2 = {80CAFF2A 11881141 3BC876F4}
//  80 CA FF or dl, 0FFh ; 
//  2A 11 sub dl, [ecx]
//  88 11 mov [ecx], dl
//  41 inc ecx
//  3B C8 cmp ecx, eax
//  76 F4 jbe short loc_1001757
        $s1 = "local-file:"
        $s2 = "xpsp2res.dll"
        $s3 = "anonymous"
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and filesize < 50KB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Worm_Win32_ITCHYSPARK_1 
{

  meta:

  strings:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for ITCHYSPARK samples based on opcode patterns observed on relevant functions."

ITCHYSPARK

$b1 = {5? 5? 8B ?? 8B [2] 2B ?? C1 ?? 02 8D [2] 8D [2] 8D [2] 85 ?? 7? ?? 8B ?? 8D [2] 8B ?? 33 ?? 8B ?? 4? 89 ?? 8D ?? 85 ?? 7? ?? 8B ?? 81 

?? A3 B1 29 4A 5? 5? 5? C3}

$b2 = {6A 01 5? 6A 00 FF ?? 83 F8 ?? 0F 8? [4] 8B [2] E8 [4] 8B ?? 85 ?? 0F 8? [4] 6A 01 8D [2] 5? 5? FF ?? 85 C0 0F 8? [4] 33 ?? 89 [2] 39 ?? 

0F 8? [4] 8D [2] 89 [2] 83 [2] 02 0F 8? [4] 83 [2] 04 0F 8?}

$b3 = {5? 5? 5? 68 AE 00 00 00 6A 02 89 [2] 89 [2] FF ?? 83 ?? 6F 0F 8? [4] 8B [2] E8 [4] 8B ?? 89 [2] 85 ?? 0F 8? [4] 8D [2] 5? 5? 6A 00 68 

AE 00 00 00 6A 02 FF ?? 85 ?? 0F 8?}

$b4 = {5? 6A 65 5? 89 [2] FF 15 [4] 85 C0 0F 8? [4] 8B [2] 85 C0 0F 8? [4] [4-12] 85 ?? 0F 8? [4] 81 ?? F4 01 00 00 7?}

  condition:

(uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and all of them

}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 7

rule M_APT_Worm_Win32_ITCHYSPARK_2 
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for WMI spreader component of ITCHYSPARK (ITCHYSPARK.WMI) samples based on opcodes observed at 

relevant functions."\
  strings:

ITCHYSPARK

$b1 = {5? 6A 03 6A 09 5? 68 [4] 68 [4] FF 15 [4] 85 C0 7? ?? FF 74 24 ?? FF 15 [4] FF 74 24 ?? FF 15}
$b2 = {8B [5] 68 FF 01 0F 00 FF [2] 5? FF ?? 85 C0 7? ?? 32 ?? EB ?? 8B ?? E8 [4] 88 [2] 84 ?? 7? ?? 68 88 13 00 00 FF 15 [4] 68 FF 01 0F 

00 FF [2] 5? FF ?? 85 C0 7?}

$b3 = {5? [0-2] 5? 5? 5? FF 15 [4] 85 C0 7? ?? FF 15 [4] 3D 1D 04 00 00 7? ?? B0 01 EB ?? 83 ?? 1E 7? ?? 68 E8 03 00 00 FF 15 [4] 4? 8B ?? 

E8 [4] 83 F8 04 7? ?? EB ?? 32 C0 5? 5? C3}

$b4 = {6A 00 FF 76 ?? FF 76 ?? FF 15 [4] 85 C0 0F 95 ?? 85 C0 7? ?? 6A 41 [0-12] 6A 44  [0-12] 6A 4D [0-12] 6A 49  [0-12] 6A 4E [0-12] 6A 

24  [0-12] FF 76 [0-12] FF 76  [0-12] FF 76 ?? E8 [4] 83 C4 0C  88 [2] 6A 00 FF 76 ?? FF 76 ?? FF 15 [4] 85 C0 0F 95}
  condition:

(uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and all of them

}

rule M_APT_Worm_Win32_ITCHYSPARK_3
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for SMB spreader component of ITCHYSPARK (ITCHYSPARK.SMB) samples based on op code patterns 

observed on relevant functions."
  strings:

ITCHYSPARK

$b1 = { E8 [4] 5? 84 C0 7? ?? 8D ?? 24 ?? 5? 68 02 02 00 00 FF 15 [4] 85 C0 7? ?? 8D ?? 24 ?? 8D ?? 24 ?? 4? FF 15 [4] 5? FF 15 }
$b2 = { 80 ?? 01 7? ?? 80 ?? 02 7? ?? 33 ?? B? [4] 80 ?? 01 6A 04 5? 0F 45 ?? 0F B7 ?? 33 C0 80 F? 01 0F 45 ?? 80 F? 02 7? ?? 6A 02 5? B? 

[4] 33 ?? 33 ?? 66 3B ?? 7? ?? 8B [2] 0F B7 ?? 8B [2] 89 [2] E8 [4] 8B ?? 83 F? 12 7? ?? 4? 66 3B ?? 7? }

$b3 = { ( 68 | FF ) [2-4] FF 7? ?? 68 [4] 5? E8 [4] A1 60 F0 04 10 8B ?? 89 45 ?? 66 A1 [4] 66 89 45 ?? [4-12] E8 [4] 6A 12 5? }
$b4 = { 33 ?? 89 [2] 8B ?? 85 [4] 89 46 ?? 33 C0 89 [2] 66 39 45 ?? 7? ?? 8B [2] EB ?? 0F B7 ?? 4? 89 [2] 8B ?? 85 [4] 8B [2] [8-16] 85 ?? 7? ?? 

6A 00 33 C0 4? 5? 6A 02 5? 5? FF }

$b5 = { E8 [4] 3B ?? 7? ?? 8B [2] B? 06 02 FC 23 3B ?? 7? ?? 7? ?? 3? 05 01 28 0A 7? ?? 3? 05 02 CE 0E 7? ?? 3? 06 00 72 17 7? ?? 3? 06 01 
B0 1D 7? ?? 3? 06 01 B1 1D 7? ?? 3? 06 02 F0 23 7? ?? [0-32] 3? 06 03 80 25 7? ?? 3? 0A 00 00 28 7? ?? 3? 0A 00 5A 29 7? ?? 3? 0A 00 39 38 7? ?? 3? 
0A 00 D7 3A 7? ?? B? 9A 08 00 00 EB ?? }
  condition:

(uint16(0) == 0x5A4D) and (uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and 3 of them

}

GOGETTER

GOGETTER

rule M_APT_Tunneler_GOGETTER_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Hunting for GOGETTER ELF files."
    strings:
        $g1 = "go.buildid"
        $g2 = "Go build ID:"
        $g3 = "Go buildinf:"
        $proxy1 = "proxy/pkg/client.(*Client)"
        $proxy2 = "proxy/pkg/"
        $yamux = "hashicorp/yamux"
    condition:
        filesize < 25MB and uint32(0) == 0x464c457f and any of ($g*) and all of ($proxy*) and $yamux
}

rule M_APT_Tunneler_GOGETTER_2
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $s1 = "\x00github.com/hashicorp/yamux.Client\x00"
        $s2 = "\x00github.com/hashicorp/yamux.(*Session).AcceptStream\x00"
        $sb1 = { 8D ?? 24 [1-5] 89 04 24 E8 [4-5] 8B 44 24 [1-2] 8B 4C 24 [4-32] 83 ?? 03 75 0D 66 81 3? 65 6E 75 06 80 7? 02 64 7? [1-2] C7 04 24 00 00 
00 00 E8 }
    condition:
        (uint32(0) == 0x464c457f) and all of them
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 8

GOGETTER

rule M_APT_Tunneler_GOGETTER_3
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $sb1 = { 48 C7 ?? 24 [4] 00 10 00 00 48 C7 ?? 24 [4] 00 10 00 00 48 8D 15 [4] 48 89 ?? 24 [4] 48 8B ?? 24 ?? 48 89 ?? 24 [4] 48 C7 ?? 24 [4] FF FF 
FF FF 48 C7 ?? 24 [4] FF FF FF FF [32-150] 48 8D ?? 24 [4] 0F 1F 40 00 E8 [4] 48 8? ?? 0F 85 [4] 48 89 ?? 24 ?? 48 89 ?? 24 ?? 48 89 D9 48 89 C3 48 
8D 44 24 ?? E8 [4] 48 89 ?? 24 ?? 48 89 ?? 24 ?? E8 [4] 48 8B 4C 24 ?? 0F 1F 40 00 48 3? ?? 7? ?? 48 8? ?? 48 8B 44 24 ?? E8 [4] 84 C0 }
    condition:
        (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D) and (uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and (uint16(uint32(0x3C)+0x18) == 0x020B) and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Wiper_CADDYWIPER_1
{
meta:
  author = "Mandiant"
  description = "Searches code segments in CADDYWIPER"
strings:                      
  //  
  $ = {c7 ?? ?? 44 3A 5C 00}

C7 45 FC 44 3A 5C 00          mov     [ebp+var_4], '\:D'

CADDYWIPER

  //  
  $ = {B8 00 00 A0 00}

B8 00 00 A0 00                mov     eax, 0A00000h

  /*

51                            push    ecx
68 54 C0 07 00                push    7C054h

  */
  $ = {51 68 54 C0 07 00}
condition:
  filesize < 3MB and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Wiper_CADDYWIPER_1
{
  meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Searches for the Physical Device call within CADDYWIPER"

  strings:

CADDYWIPER

// LocalAlloc, push 0xa00000 and 0x40
$ = {00 00 A0 00}

$ = {43 3A 5C 55 C7 ?? ??  73 65 72 73}

$ = {C7 45 FC 44 3A 5C 00} // d:\\

//$ = {68 54 C0 07 00}

  condition:

all of them

}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 9

NEARTWIST

rule M_APT_Disrupt_NEARTWIST_1 
{
meta:
  author = "Mandiant"
strings:
  $mersenne_alg = { D1 EA 83 E1 01 69 C9 DF B0 08 99 33 CA } 
  $s1 = "PhysicalDrive" wide fullword
  $wipe_drive = { 6A 00 6A 00 6A 03 6A 00 6A 03 68 00 00 00 C0 [0-32] FF 15 [4-64] 5? 6A 00 6A 00 6A 00 6A 00 68 18 00 09 00 5? FF 15 [4-256] 68 
00 00 01 00 [0-32] FF 15 } 
  $wipe_file = { 6A 00 6A 00 6A 03 6A 00 6A 03 68 00 00 00 C0 [0-32] FF 15 [4-64] 5? 5? FF 15 [4-32] 6A 00 68 00 00 01 00 5? 5? E8 } 
condition:
  (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D) and (uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and all of them
}

rule M_APT_Wiper_Win32_NEARTWIST_1 
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for NEARTWIST samples based on opcode patterns observed on relevant functions."

NEARTWIST

  strings:

00 00 }

$b1 = {68 05 01 00 00 8D [4-6] 5? FF 15 [4] 85 C0 0F 8? [4] 3? 05 01 00 00 0F 8? [4] 8B 85 [4-5] 85 C0 0F 8?}
$b2 = {FF 15 [4] 89 8? [4-6] B? 01 00 00 00 [4-32] C1 ?? 1E  33 ?? 69 ?? 65 89 07 6C 03 ?? 89 [6] 4? (3D|81 FA) 70 02 00 00 7? ?? B? 70 02 

$b3 = {6A 00 5? 68 00 00 01 00 8D ?? 24 [4] 5? 5? FF 15 [4] 85 C0 7? ?? 8B 44 24 ?? 3D 00 00 01 00 7? ?? 2B ?? 83 ?? 00 E9}

  condition:

(uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and all of them

}

rule M_APT_Wiper_Win_NEARTWIST_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Looking for NEARTWIST samples based on strings, imports, and constants for Mersenne Twister / ISAAC PRNG."
    strings:
        $b1 = { 65 89 07 6C }
        $b2 = { AD 58 3A FF }
        $b3 = { 8C DF FF FF }
        $i1 = "GetTickCount"
        $i2 = "DeviceIoControl"
        $i3 = "GetLogicalDrives"
        $i4 = "FindFirstFile"
        $i5 = "FindNextFile"
        $i6 = "WriteFile"
        $i7 = "GetDiskFreeSpaceEx"
        $i8 = "CreateThread"
        $i9 = "GetWindowsDirectory"
        $i10 = "GetTempFileName"
        $n1 = "Cleaner.exe" ascii fullword wide
        $n2 = "Cleaner.dll" ascii fullword wide
        $s1 = "PhysicalDrive" ascii fullword wide
        $s2 = "\\\\.\\" ascii fullword wide
        $s3 = "*.*" ascii fullword wide
        $s4 = "Tmf" ascii fullword wide
        $s5 = "Tmd" ascii fullword wide
    condition:
        (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and any of ($n*) and all of ($s*) and all of ($i*) and all of ($b*)
}

NEARTWIST

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 0

rule M_APT_Disrupt_PARTYTICKET_1
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for PARTYTICKET samples via strings."

  strings:

PARTYTICKET

$s1 = "/403forBiden/" ascii wide
$s2 = "/wHiteHousE/" ascii wide
$s3 = "partyTicket." ascii wide
$s4 = "vote_result." ascii wide
$s5 = ".encryptedJB" ascii wide
$f1 = "/wHiteHousE.baggageGatherings" ascii wide
$f2 = "/wHiteHousE.primaryElectionProcess" ascii wide
$f3 = "/wHiteHousE.GoodOffice1" ascii wide
$f4 = "/wHiteHousE.lookUp" ascii wide
$f5 = "/wHiteHousE.init" ascii wide
$m1 = "<p>Thank you for your vote! All your files, documents, photoes, videos, databases etc. have been successfully encrypted!</p>" 

ascii wide fullword 

$m2 = "<p>Now your computer has a special ID:<b> </b></p>" ascii wide fullword
$m3 = "<p>NOTE:  <i>Do not send file with sensitive content. In the email write us your computer's special ID (mentioned above).</i>" 

ascii wide fullword
  condition:

uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and (3 of ($s*) or 3 of ($f*) or 2 of ($m*))

}

rule M_APT_Disrupt_PARTYTICKET_2
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Looking for PARTYTICKET samples via opcode patterns observed on relevant functions."

  strings:

PARTYTICKET

$b1 = {48 83 F8 1B 0F 8D [4] 48 89 [3] 48 89 [3] 48 89 [3] 48 8D 35 [4] 0F B6 3C 06 81 FF 80 00 00 00 0F 8? [4] 48 FF C0 [16-32] E8 

[16-64] E8 [8-32] E8 [4] 48 8B 44 24 ?? 48 85 C0 7? ?? [8-24] E9}

$b2 = {48 83 F8 37 0F 8D [24-32] E8 [16-32] E8 [16-32] 48 C1 E? 04 [8-16] 7? ?? 0F B6 44 24 ?? EB ?? [8-16] E8 [4] 0F B6 44 24 ?? 84 C0 

7? ?? [4-8] B8 01 00 00 00 E9 }

$b3 = {3D 77 69 6E 64 0F 85 [4-12] 66 3D 6F 77 0F 85  [4-12] 3C 73 0F 85 [4] E8 [4] [8-24] 31 ?? EB}

  condition:

uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and all of them

}

rule M_APT_Distupt_NEARMISS_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
        $code_fat_corruption = { 8B ?? 56 8B ?? 52 [1-64] 0F B? ?? 16 [1-32] 8B ?? 24 [0-32] 0F B? ?? 0D [1-32] 0F B? ?? 10 [1-32] 0F B? ?? 0E }
        $code_ntfs_corruption = { 0F B? ?? 0B 0F B? ?? 0D [1-64] FF ?? 34 FF ?? 30 [1-64] 0F B? ?? 0B [1-64] FF ?? 3C FF ?? 38 }
        $s1 = "\\\\.\\PhysicalDrive%u" fullword wide
        $s2 = "\\\\.\\EPMNTDRV\\%u" fullword wide
        $s3 = "DRV_X64" fullword wide
        $s4 = "DRV_X86" fullword wide
        $s5 = "DRV_XP_X64" fullword wide
        $s6 = "DRV_XP_X86" fullword wide
        $s7 = "$ATTRIBUTE_LIST" fullword wide
        $s8 = "$EA_INFORMATION" fullword wide
        $s9 = "$SECURITY_DESCRIPTOR" fullword wide
        $s10 = "$INDEX_ROOT" fullword wide
        $s11 = "$INDEX_ALLOCATION" fullword wide
        $s12 = "$LOGGED_UTILITY_STREAM" fullword wide
    condition:
        (uint16(0) == 0x5A4D) and (uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550) and (8 of ($s*) or all of ($code*))
}

NEARMISS

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEARMISS

NEARMISS

NEARMISS

WEEVELY

3 1

rule M_Hunting_Win32_NEARMISS_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Rule looks for code present in NEARMISS samples. Based on a rule generated by symhunt for symfunc/
cef8160083d485a3676d55b3fc5e1c42."
    strings:
        $c = { 55 8B EC 81 EC AC 08 ?? ?? 53 56 57 33 DB 89 4D E0 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 8D 85 78 FC FF FF C7 45 DC ?? ?? ?? ?? 53 50 C7 45 E4 ?? ?? ?? ?? 89 
5D F8 89 5D A4 E8 ?? ?? ?? ?? 83 C4 0C 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? FF ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 8B F8 8D 85 78 FC FF FF 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 50 FF ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 83 
C4 0C 89 45 F0 85 FF 74 ?? 8B ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 57 FF D6 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 57 8B D8 FF D6 68 ?? ?? ?? ?? 57 FF D6 8B F0 85 F6 74 ?? 8D 45 
F8 50 FF }
    condition:
        filesize < 15MB and uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and any of them
}

rule M_Hunting_Win32_NEARMISS_2
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Rule looks for a specific stackstring - mangled SeShutdownPrivilege - found in NEARMISS samples."
    strings:
        $s1 = { 53 00 65 00 [4] 53 00 68 00 [4] 75 00 74 00 [4] 64 00 6F 00 [4] 9A 02 00 00 [4] 00 00 00 00 }
        $s2 = { 77 00 6E 00 [7] 50 00 72 00 }
    condition:
        filesize < 15MB and uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and all of them
}

rule M_Hunting_Win_WiperPaths_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detects notable wiper strings"
        reference = "https://twitter.com/ESETresearch/status/1496581903205511181"
    strings:

$w1 = "\\\\.\\EPMNTDRV" wide fullword
$w2 = "\\\\.\\PhysicalDrive" wide fullword
$w3 = "Software\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Explorer\\Advanced" wide fullword
$w4 = "\\\\?\\C:\\Windows\\System32\\winevt\\Logs" wide fullword
$w5 = "\\\\?\\C:\\Documents and Settings" wide fullword
$w6 = "<<Obsolete>>" wide fullword

    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and (all of them)
}

rule M_Webshell_PHP_WEEVELY_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Weevely3 open source webshell detection from https://artikrh.github.io/posts/weevely-backdoor-analysis -- Webshell source 
code: https://github.com/epinna/weevely3/tree/master/core"
    strings:
        $php = "<?php" ascii
        $rf1 = "$k" ascii
        $rf2 = "$kh" ascii
        $rf3 = "$kf" ascii
        $rf4 = "$p" ascii
        $rf5 = "$o" ascii
        $rf6 = /\$\w{1,4}=str_replace\('\w{1,}','','/ ascii
    condition:
        $php at 0 and all of ($rf*) and filesize > 500 and filesize < 1000
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 2

import "pe"

rule M_Backdoor_DARKCRYSTALRAT_1 
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Detection for DARKCRYSTAL RAT's C2 checkin and CSharp compiling code"
    strings:
        $c1 = {72????????a2251907a2251a72????????a2251b11??28????????72????????28????????28????????a2251c72????????a2251d11??28????????2
8????????a2251e72????????a2251f??11??28????????72????????28????????28????????a2251f??72????????a2251f??
7e????????28????????28????????1628????????28????????28????????a2251f??72????????a2251f??07a228????????}
        $c2 = {0228????????0000000428????????0a0428????????0b0672????????6f????????72????????28????????2d??0672????????6f????????72?????
???28????????2b??170c0839????????00140d0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??2c??73????????0d2b??73????????0d73????????
25176f????????0025166f????????0013??11??6f????????0672????????6f????????178d????????25161f??9d6f????????6f????????000911??17
8d????????25160672????????6f????????a26f????????13??11??6f????????6f????????13??11??39????????0072????????13??0011??6f????????6f??????
??13??2b??11??6f????????74????????13??1e8d????????251611??a2251772????????a2251811??6f????????a2251972????????a2251a11??6f????????13
??12??28????????a2251b72????????a2251c11??6f????????a2251d72????????a228????????13??11??6f????????2d??de??11??75????????13??11??2c??1
1??6f????????00dc0211??7d????????02177d????????dd????????11??6f????????72????????6f????????13??0011??6f????????6f????????13??1613??2b?
?11??11??9a13??0011??6f????????72????????28????????13??11??2c??0011??11??146f????????262b??0011??175813??11??11??8e6932??0038???????
?0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??39????????0028????????72????????1f??28????????72????????28????????13??11??0672????
????6f????????28????????000772????????6f????????a5????????13??11??2c??0073????????25176f????????002528????????2d??72????????2b??72??
??????6f????????0025176f????????002511??6f????????0013??11??28????????6f????????00002b??0073????????25166f????????002528????????2d??
72????????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????11??72????????28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????
6f????????0000000011??28????????0000de??260000de??0038????????0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??39????????0028????
????72????????1f??28????????72????????28????????13??11??0672????????6f????????28????????0073????????25176f????????002528????????2d??7
2????????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????11??72????????28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????
6f????????000011??28????????0000de??260000de??0038????????0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??2c??0073????????2517
6f????????002528????????2d??72????????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????0672????????6f????????72????????
28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????6f????????000002167d????????00de??13??000211??6f????????7d????????02177d????????00de??2a}
        $c3 = {73????????0d2b??73????????0d73????????25176f????????0025166f????????0013??11??6f????????0672????????6f????????178d????????2
5161f??9d6f????????6f????????000911??178d????????25160672????????6f????????a26f????????13??11??6f????????
6f????????13??11??39????????0072????????13??0011??6f????????6f????????13??2b??11??6f????????74????????13??1e8d????????251611??a225177
2????????a2251811??6f????????a2251972????????a2251a11??6f????????13??12??28????????a2251b72????????a2251c11??6f????????a2251d72?????
???a228????????13??11??6f????????2d??de??11??75????????13??11??2c??11??6f????????00dc0211??7d????????02177d????????dd????????11??
6f????????72????????6f????????13??0011??6f????????6f????????13??1613??2b??11??11??9a13??0011??6f????????72????????28????????13??11??2c?
?0011??11??146f????????262b??0011??175813??11??11??8e6932??0038????????0672????????
6f????????72????????28????????13??11??39????????0028????????72????????1f??28????????72????????28????????13??11??0672????????
6f????????28????????000772????????6f????????a5????????13??11??2c??0073????????25176f????????002528????????2d??72????????2b??72??????
??6f????????0025176f????????002511??6f????????0013??11??28????????6f????????00002b??0073????????25166f????????002528????????2d??72??
??????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????11??72????????28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????
6f????????0000000011??28????????0000de??260000de??0038????????0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??39????????0028????
????72????????1f??28????????72????????28????????13??11??0672????????6f????????28????????0073????????25176f????????002528????????2d??7
2????????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????11??72????????28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????
6f????????000011??28????????0000de??260000de??0038????????0672????????6f????????72????????28????????13??11??2c??0073????????2517
6f????????002528????????2d??72????????2b??72????????6f????????002572????????6f????????002572????????0672????????6f????????72????????
28????????6f????????0013??11??28????????6f????????000002167d????????00de??13??000211??6f????????7d????????02177d????????00de??2a}

        /*
            0c245b2700e9417c0e1cbfd0f8d1aa70
            DCRatBuild.Managers.DCRat.CreatorAuthenticationTask.ReflectGetter() : void @06000E8D
        */
        $c4 = {0073????????2572????????72????????6f????????0a0673????????0b73????????25176f????????25166f????????256f????????72????????6f?
???????26256f????????72????????6f????????26256f????????72????????6f????????26256f????????72????????6f????????26256f????????72????????6f
????????26256f????????72????????6f????????26256f????????72????????6f????????260c0708178d????????2516027b????????28????????a2
6f????????0d096f????????6f????????2c??1f??8d????????25167e????????a2251772????????a225187e????????28????????28????????a2251972???????
?a2251a7e????????a2251b72????????a2251c72????????7e????????28????????28????????a2251d72????????a2251e72????????28????????a228??????
??28????????262b??1f??8d????????25167e????????a2251772????????a225187e????????28????????28????????a2251972????????a2251a7e????????a
2251b72????????a2251c72????????7e????????28????????28????????a2251d72????????a2251e72????????28????????a228????????28????????2609
6f????????72????????6f????????13??11??6f????????72????????6f????????13??11??11??146f????????26de??261f??8d????????25167e????????a22517
72????????a225187e????????28????????28????????a2251972????????a2251a7e????????a2251b72????????a2251c72????????7e????????28????????2
8????????a2251d72????????a2251e72????????28????????a228????????28????????26de??2a}
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d
        and pe.data_directories[pe.IMAGE_DIRECTORY_ENTRY_COM_DESCRIPTOR].virtual_address != 0
        and 1 of ($c*) 
}

DARKCRYSTALRAT

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm          
3 3

DARKCRYSTALRAT

rule M_Backdoor_Win_DARKCRYSTALRAT_Config_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "This rule looks for PE files containing part of DARKCRYSTALRAT configuration string. Configuration JSON is stored as base64 
encoded, reversed, gzip compressed and again bas64 encoded string."
    strings:
        $s = { 48 00 34 00 73 00 49 00 41 00 41 00 41 00 41 00 41 00 41 00 41 00 45 00 41 00 46 00 32 00 54 00 58 00 58 00 75 00 69 00 4D 00 42 00 
43 00 46 00 66 00 39 00 }
    condition:
        filesize < 15MB and uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and $s
}

rule M_Downloader_SMOKELOADER_1 
{
    meta:
        author = " Mandiant"
        description = "This rule is designed to detect on events related to smokeloader. SMOKELOADER is a downloader that retrieves additional 
payloads via HTTP. Retrieved payloads are mapped into memory and may include plugins that expand SMOKELOADER's functionality. Capabilities 
added via plugins include keylogging, credential theft, and DDoS. Retrieved payloads may also include additional malware such as AZORULT, 
FORMBOOK, REMCOS, URSNIF, SILENTNIGHT, TRICKBOT, and SYSTEMBC."

SMOKELOADER

    strings:
        $part_of_winmain = {81 3D [4] 00 04 00 00 5? 5? 75 ?? 8D 45 ?? E8 [4] 8D 75 ?? E8 [4] 8B 3D [4] 5? 8B 5D ?? 33 F6 FF D7 81 FE [4] 7E ?? 81 FB ?? 
?? ?? 78 75 ?? 4? 81 FE ?? 1D 00 00 7C ?? 8B 3D [4] 8B 1D [4] 33 F6 8D A4 24 00 00 00 00 6A 00 FF D7 FF D3 FF 15 [4] 81 FE 47 6D 20 00 7F ?? 46 81 
FE A4 F6 04 00 7C ?? 8B 3D [4] 33 F6 5B}
        $part_of_alloc_memeory = {8B [5] 05 4B 13 01 00 50 6A 00 89 [5] A3 [4] FF 15 [4] A3 [4] E8 [4] 33 F6 39 35}
        $part_of_stackstring_virtualprotect = {68 38 2B 42 00 FF 15 [4] B1 74 B2 72 68 80 97 42 00 50 A3 [4] C6 05 [4] 56 C6 05 [4] 69 88 15 [4] C6 05 
[4] 50 88 0D [4] C6 05 [4] 00 88 0D [4] C6 05 [4] 63 C6 05 [4] 75 C6 05 [4] 61 C6 05 [4] 6C 88 15 [4] C6 05 [4] 6F 88 0D [4] C6 05 [4] 65 FF 15 [4] A3}
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5a4d and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and 2 of the 
}

SHARPCOFFEE

rule M_Downloader_SHARPCOFFEE_1 
{
    meta:
      author = "Mandiant"
    strings:
      $str1 = "ActiveXObject(\"WScript.Shell\").Run(\"powershell.exe" nocase
      $str2 = "new-object net.webclient;" nocase
      $str3 = ".downloaddata('http" nocase
      $str4 = ".uploaddata('http" nocase
      $str5 = "[System.Net.Dns]" nocase
    condition:
      all of them
}

rule M_APT_Downloader_SHARPCOFFEEVBS_2
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Detects SHARPCOFFE.VBS variant, a VBS script used to download and run a secondary payload, and upload the output 

SHARPCOFFEE.
VBS

of the secondary payload during the same script execution."
  strings:

$vbs = "dim" ascii wide nocase
$a1 = /\$\w{1,20}\.uploaddata\('http:\/\/.{1,20}\/page\d{1,3}',\$\w{1,10}\);/
$a2 = /=\$\w{1,20}\.downloaddata\('http:\/\/.{1,50}\/page\d{1,3}\/upgrade\.txt'\);if\(/

  condition:

filesize < 1MB and $vbs at 0 and any of ($a*)

}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 4

rule M_Dropper_COLDWELL_Permission_Arch_Check_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"

COLDWELL

    strings:
        $ = {C7 45 F? 00 05 50 C7 45 F? } 
        $ = {C7 45 F? 00 00 00 00 C7 45 F? }
        $ = {0F 95 C3 6A 04 83 C3 [7] F7 D8 6A 0A}

    condition:
        all of them
}

rule M_Disrupt_ROARBAT_1
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"

    strings:
        $ = "takeown /a /f \"%%"
        $ = "in (C:\\Users,"
        $ = "a -df %"
        $ = "\" & del %"

    condition:
        all of them
}

ROARBAT

rule M_Hunting_Backdoor_PowerShell_WILDDIME_Strings_1 
{
    meta:
        author = "Mandiant"
        description = "Searching for PowerShell scripts with strings associated with WILDDIME."

WILDDIME

    strings:
        $s1 = "GetEnviron" nocase ascii wide
        $s2 = "R64Encoder" nocase ascii wide
        $s3 = "R64Decoder" nocase ascii wide
        $s4 = "Send-HttpRequest" nocase ascii wide
        $s5 = "JVBERi0xLjcNCiW1tb" nocase ascii wide

    condition:
        filesize < 200KB and
        all of them
}

rule M_Hunting_Downloader_SHARPENTRY_1 
{
    meta:
        author= "Mandiant"
        description="Detects code fragments connected to the payload decoding and mining routines found within SHARPENTRY."

SHARPENTRY

    strings:
        $decode_routine = { 0F B6 ?? ?? 0F B6 ?? ?? 33 C2 88 ?? ?? 0F B6 ?? ?? 83 ?? 4D }
        $payload_mine = { 8B ?? ?? 03 ?? ?? 81 ?? 89 C3 81 C3 }

    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5A4D
        and $decode_routine
        and $payload_mine
}

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
rule M_Hunting_Dropper_SHARPIVORY_Strings_1
{
  meta:

author = "Mandiant"
description = "Searching for executables containing strings references to the SHARPIVORY code family." 

3 5

  strings:

SHARPIVORY

$s1 = "WriteAllBytes" 
$s2 = "FromBase64String"
$w1 = "schtasks.exe" wide
$w2 = "kernel32.dll" wide
$w3 = "/create /tn" wide
$w4 = "/sc minute /mo 20 /f" wide

  condition:

filesize < 5MB and
uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 and
all of them

}

Mandiant Security Validation Actions

Organizations can validate their security controls using the following actions with Mandiant Security Validation.

VID 

Name

A101-165

Application Vulnerability - APT44, CVE-2019-10149, Remote Code Execution, Benign Payload

A101-166

Application Vulnerability - APT44, CVE-2019-10149, Remote Code Execution, Malicious Payload

A102-517

Command and Control - APT44, AXETERROR, Beacon, Variant #1

A107-038

Command and Control - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Beacon, Variant #1

A106-188

Command and Control - APT44, BRUSHPASS, DNS Query, Variant #1

A107-010

Command and Control - APT44, DARKCRYSTALRAT, C2 Communication, Variant #2

A105-312

Command and Control - APT44, DARKCRYSTALRAT, DNS Query, Variant #1

A105-407

Command and Control - APT44, DNS Query, Variant #1

A105-408

Command and Control - APT44, DNS Query, Variant #2

A107-026

Command and Control - APT44, FELIXROOT, Beacon, Variant #1

A106-106

Command and Control - APT44, GOGETTER, DNS Query, Variant #1

A107-024

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, Download File

A107-027

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, Establish Connection

A107-033

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, Execute phpinfo() Command

A107-013

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, Execute Version Command

A107-016

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, File Search

A107-031

Command and Control - APT44, PASWEB, Upload File

A106-103

Command and Control - APT44, QUICKTOW, C2 Communication, HTTP Post, Variant #1

A106-102

Command and Control - APT44, QUICKTOW, DNS Query, Variant #1

A106-008

Command and Control - APT44, SPAREPART, Beaconing, Variant #1

A107-001

Command and Control - APT44, TRICKSHOW, Beacon, Variant #1

A106-994

Command and Control - APT44, TRICKSHOW, Beacon, Variant #2

A106-996

Command and Control - UNC1908, STRAYKEY, Check-in

A106-998

Command and Control - UNC1908, STRAYKEY, Command Response

A106-999

Command and Control - UNC1908, STRAYKEY, Startup Communication

A104-850

Host CLI - APT44, Add New Local User mysql_db, Linux

A106-193

Host CLI - APT44, BRUSHPASS, Modifying Firewall Rules

A106-439

Host CLI - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Scheduled Task, Variant #1

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 6

A106-446

Host CLI - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Scheduled Task, Variant #2

A106-438

Host CLI - APT44, GOGETTER, Systemd Service

A104-623

Host CLI - Mshta/Schtasks Persistence via HTA

A106-993

Host CLI - UNC4209, SWEETJADE, Create Mutex, Variant #1

A103-029

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, ARGUEPATCH, Download, Variant #1

A103-873

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, ARGUEPATCH, Download, Variant #4

A102-519

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, AXETERROR, Download, Variant #1

A102-518

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, AXETERROR, Download, Variant #2

A107-000

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BACKORDER, Download, Variant #1

A102-582

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Download, Variant #1

A102-583

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Download, Variant #2

A102-584

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Download, Variant #3

A102-585

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Download, Variant #4

A106-190

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BRUSHPASS, Download, Variant #1

A106-189

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, BRUSHPASS, Download, Variant #2

A103-030

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Download, Encrypted Variant #1

A102-784

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Download, Variant #1

A103-615

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Download, Variant #5

A106-440

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Download, Variant #6

A107-008

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, COLIBRI Dropper, Download, Variant #1

A102-576

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #1

A102-796

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #10

A102-797

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #11

A102-798

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #12

A102-788

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #2

A102-789

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #3

A102-790

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #4

A102-791

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #5

A102-792

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #6

A102-793

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #7

A102-794

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #8

A102-795

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, CYCLOPSBLINK, Download, Variant #9

A105-313

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, DARKCRYSTALRAT Downloader, Download, Variant #1

A103-624

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, EARLYBLOOM Downloader, Download, Variant #1

A103-613

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, EARLYBLOOM, Download, Variant #1

A101-388

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, EMPIRE, Download

A101-389

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, EMPYRE, Download

A106-990

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, EXARAMEL Dropper, Download, Variant #1

A107-018

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, FAIRROOT, Download, Variant #1

A107-029

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, FELIXROOT Dropper, Download, Variant #1

A107-043

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, FREETOW, Download, Variant #1

A103-166

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, GOGETTER, Download, Variant #1

A103-167

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, GOGETTER, Download, Variant #2

A103-168

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, GOGETTER, Download, Variant #3

A103-169

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, GOGETTER, Download, Variant #4

A106-442

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, GOGETTER, Download, Variant #5

A107-009

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, ILLICITORDER, DARKCRYSTALRAT, Download, Variant #1

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  3 7

A102-993

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, INDUSTROYER, Download, Variant #2

A107-012

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, ITCHYSPARK.SMB, Download, Variant #1

A107-011

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, ITCHYSPARK.WMI, Download, Variant #1

A101-887

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, Malicious Bash Script , Download, Variant #2

A101-390

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, METERPRETER, Download

A102-573

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, NEARMISS, Download, Variant #1

A102-574

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, NEARMISS, Download, Variant #2

A102-662

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, NEARTWIST, Download, Variant #1

A106-995

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, NEWRETURN Dropper, Download, Variant #1

A105-426

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, OWA Credential Harvesting Page, Download, Variant #1

A105-427

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, OWA Credential Harvesting Page, Download, Variant #2

A105-428

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, OWA Credential Harvesting Page, Download, Variant #3

A105-429

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, OWA Credential Harvesting Page, Download, Variant #4

A102-663

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, PARTYTICKET, Download, Variant #1

A103-614

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, POWERDISCO, Download, Variant #1

A107-023

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, REGEORG.NEO, Download, Variant #1

A107-019

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, REGEORG.NEO, Upload, Variant #1

A106-009

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, SPAREPART, Download, Variant #1

A106-546

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, STOWAWAY, Download, Variant #1

A106-547

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, STOWAWAY, Download, Variant #2

A107-030

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, TANKTRAP, Download, Variant #1

A102-579

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, VPNFILTER, Download, Variant #1

A102-580

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, VPNFILTER, Download, Variant #2

A102-581

Malicious File Transfer - APT44, VPNFILTER, Download, Variant #3

A101-287

Malicious File Transfer - CVE-2019-10149, APT44, Malicious Bash Script, Download

A106-997

Malicious File Transfer - UNC4209, SWEETJADE, Download, Variant #1

A106-988

Malicious File Transfer - WSO, Upload, Variant #1

A107-035

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, FAIRROOT, Variant #1

A107-034

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, FELIXROOT, Variant #1

A107-039

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, HEXCHAMBER, EMPIRE, Variant #1

A107-022

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, HEXCHAMBER, Variant #1

A107-032

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, HEXCHAMBER, Variant #2

A107-044

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, PENNYBAG, BLACKENERGY, Variant #1

A107-014

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, PENNYBAG, BLACKENERGY, Variant #2

A107-042

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, PENNYBAG, BLACKENERGY, Variant #3

A107-036

Phishing Email - APT44, Malicious Attachment, PENNYBAG, BLACKENERGY, Variant #4

A101-158

Phishing Email - Malicious Attachment, APT44, Doc Lure

A103-626

Phishing Email - Malicious Attachment, APT44, EARLYBLOOM, HTML Downloader

A107-041

Phishing Email - Malicious Attachment, APT44, TRICKSHOW Dropper, Variant #1

A107-007

Protected Theater  - APT44, ILLICITORDER, Execution, Variant #1

A107-020

Protected Theater - APT44, BLACKENERGY, Execution, Variant #1

A105-030

Protected Theater - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Execution, Variant #1

A106-437

Protected Theater - APT44, CADDYWIPER, Execution, Variant #2

A107-002

Protected Theater - APT44, COLIBRI Dropper, Mount ISO, Variant #1

A106-989

Protected Theater - APT44, COLIBRI, Execution, Variant #1

A107-004

Protected Theater - APT44, COLIBRI, Execution, Variant #2

A106-107

Protected Theater - APT44, Create GOGETTER Scheduled Task

A107-005

Protected Theater - APT44, DARKCRYSTALRAT, Execution, Variant #1

A105-346

Protected Theater - APT44, EARLYBLOOM, CVE-2022-30190, HTML Downloader, Execution

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  A105-143

Protected Theater - APT44, EARLYBLOOM, Execution, Variant #1

A105-349

Protected Theater - APT44, EARLYBLOOM, Malicious Document, Execution, Variant #1

A105-350

Protected Theater - APT44, EARLYBLOOM, Persistence with Scheduled Task

A107-028

Protected Theater - APT44, EMPIRE Stager, Execution, Variant #1

A107-021

Protected Theater - APT44, EMPIRE, Execution, Variant #1

A107-003

Protected Theater - APT44, EXARAMEL Dropper, Deliver EXARAMEL, Variant #1

A107-040

Protected Theater - APT44, FAIRROOT, Execution, Variant #1

A107-015

Protected Theater - APT44, FELIXROOT Downloader, Execution, Variant #1

A107-025

Protected Theater - APT44, FREETOW, Execution, Variant #1

A106-104

Protected Theater - APT44, GOGETTER, Execution, Variant #1

A107-017

Protected Theater - APT44, HEXCHAMBER, Execution, Variant #1

A107-037

Protected Theater - APT44, Install SWEETTREAT as a Service, Variant #1

A104-979

Protected Theater - APT44, NEARMISS, Execution, Variant #1

A106-987

Protected Theater - APT44, NEWRETURN Dropper, Execution, Variant #1

A105-015

Protected Theater - APT44, PARTYTICKET, Execution, Variant #1

A106-105

Protected Theater - APT44, QUICKTOW, Execution, Variant #1

A106-010

Protected Theater - APT44, SPAREPART, Establish Persistence, Variant #1

A107-006

Protected Theater - APT44, WARZONE, Execution via COLIBRI, Variant #1

A106-992

Protected Theater - APT44, WARZONE, Execution via COLIBRI, Variant #2

A106-991

Protected Theater - UNC4209, SWEETJADE, Execution, Variant #1

A106-371

Web Server Activity - APT44, BRUSHPASS, Webshell Command Activity

A106-372

Web Server Activity - APT44, BRUSHPASS, Webshell File Upload Activity

For more information visit cloud.google.com
332694141

APT44: Unearthing Sandworm  