,. 

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

V. 

Criminal No. 20- j (' 

YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO, 
SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV, 
PAVEL VALERYEVICHFROLOV, 
ANATOLIY SERGEYEVICH KOVALEV, 
ARTEM VALERYEVICH OCHICHENKO, and 
PETR NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, 

Defendants. 

18 U.S.C. §§ 371, 1030(a)(2)(C), 
1030(a)(5)(A), 3559(g)(l) 
(Conspiracy) 
18 u.s.c. § 1349 
(Conspiracy to Commit Wire Fraud) 
18 U.S.C. § 1343 (Wire Fraud) 
18 U.S.C. § 1030(a)(5)(A) and 
1030(c)(4)(B) (Damage to Computers) 
18 U.S.C. § 1028A (Aggravated Identity 
Theft) 
18 U.S.C. § 2 (Aiding and Abetting) 

[UNDER SEAL] 

OCT  1 S 2020 

CLl:~K U,S, OIS'fl~ICT COURT 
WEST.  DIST. OF PENNSYLVANIA 

INDICTMENT 

COUNT ONE 

(Conspiracy to Commit an Offense Against the United States) 

The grand jury charges: 

1. 

At all times relevant to the indictment, from at least in and around November 2015 

through  in  and  around  October  20 19,  the  Russian  Federation  ("Russia")  operated  a  military 

intelligence agency  called the  Main Intelligence Directorate of the  General  Staff of the  Armed 

Forces ("GRU").  The GRU was headquartered in Moscow, Russia, and was comprised ofmultiple 

units, including Military Unit 74455, which was also known within the GRU as the "Main Center 

for  Special  Technologies"  (also  known  as  "GTsST")  and  by  cybersecurity  researchers  as 

Sandworm Team, Telebots, Voodoo Bear, and Iron Viking.  Military Unit  74455 was primarily 

1 

located at 22 Kirova Street,  Khimki,  Moscow,  Russia,  a  building  referred to  within the  GRU as 

"the Tower." 

2. 

Defendants  YURIY  SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO 

(IOp:nu:  CepreeBnq 

AH,n;pneHKo),  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV  (Cepren:  BrraunMnpoBnq  ,lJ;eTIICTOB), 

PAVEL  VALERYEVICH 

FROLOV 

(IlaBen  BanepLeB:nq 

(J)porroB),  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV  (AHaTon:nu:  CepreeBHq  KoBaneB),  ARTEM  VALERYEVICH 

OCHICHENKO (ApTeM BanepbeBIIq OqIIqeHKO), and PETR NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN (IleTp 

HIIKonaeBHq TirrIICKHH)  were GRU officers working for Military Unit 74455 who knowingly and 

intentionally conspired with each other and with persons known and unknown to  the grand jury 

(collectively, the "Conspirators") to deploy destructive malware and take other disruptive actions, 

for the strategic benefit of Russia, through unauthorized access to victim computers.  This included 

cyber-enabled  malicious  actions  aimed  at  supporting  broader  Russian  government  efforts­

regardless  of the  consequences  to  innocent  parties  and  critical  infrastructure  worldwide-to 

undermine,  retaliate  against,  or  otherwise  destabilize:  (1)  Ukraine;  (2)  the  country  of Georgia; 

(3) France's elections; ( 4) efforts to hold Russia accountable for its use of a weapons-grade nerve 

agent  on foreign  soil;  and  (5)  the  2018  Winter Olympics after  a  Russian  government-sponsored 

doping effort led to Russian athletes being unable to participate under the Russian flag. 

THE VICTIMS 

3. 

Among the  victims  targeted by Military Unit  74455  were  thousands  of U.S.  and 

international  corporations,  organizations,  and  political  campaigns  and  parties; 

foreign 

governments; entities and corporations associated with the 2018 Winter Olympic Games; and their 

respective employees.  The victims included: 

2 

a. 

Ukraine,  through the  Conspirators'  deployment  in  and  around  December 

2015  and  December 2016  of destructive  "BlackEnergy,"  "KillDisk,"  and 

"Industroyer"  malware  against  companies  supporting  Ukraine's  electric 

power grid  and  against Ukraine's  Ministry of Finance and  State  Treasury 

Service; 

b. 

France,  through  spearphishing  campaigns  in  and  around  April  and  May 

201 7 targeting local  government entities, political parties, and campaigns, 

including now~French  President Emmanuel  Macron's  "La Republique  En 

Marche!"  political  party  in  connection  with  Macron's  2017  presidential 

campaign; 

c. 

Hundreds of worldwide victims  of the "NotPetya" malware attacks  in and 

around June 2017, including:  (1)  civilian critical infrastructure, such as the 

Heritage  Valley  Health  System,  located  in  Sewickley,  Pennsylvania,  and 

Beaver, Pennsylvania,  in the Western District of Pennsylvania,  which had 

approximately  80  affected  medical  facilities;  (2)  a  FedEx  Corporation 

subsidiary, TNT Express B.V., which was one of the world's largest express 

delivery  companies;  and  (3)  a  large  U.S.  pham1aceutical  manufacturer, 

which together had nearly $1  billion in losses resulting from the attacks; 

d. 

International  victims  associated  with  the  2018  Winter  Olympic  Games, 

including:  (1)  Olympic  partners  and  athletes,  Republic  of  Korea  (also 

known  as  South  Korea)  government  agencies,  and  the  International 

Olympic  Committee  ("IOC"),  which  the  Conspirators  targeted  through 

3 

spearphishing campaigns from  in and around December 2017 until  in and 

around February 2018; (2) South Korean nationals and international visitors 

to  South  Korea,  whom  the  Conspirators  targeted  with  malicious  mobile 

applications  in and around December 2017  and January 2018;  and  (3)  the 

2018  Winter  Olympic  Games  more  generally,  through  the  deployment  of 

destructive  "Olympic Destroyer"  malware  against computer systems  used 

by 

the  Olympic  Games' 

information 

technology  vendor  and 

the 

PyeongChang Organizing Committee for the 2018  Olympic & Paralympic 

Winter  Games  ("PyeongChang  Organizing  Committee")  in  and  around 

February 2018; 

e. 

International  and  government organizations investigating the poisoning of 

a  former  GRU  officer  and  his  daughter  in the  United  Kingdom,  through, 

among other conduct, a spearphishing campaign in and around April 2018 

targeting  the  Organisation  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons 

("OPCW")  and  the  United  Kingdom's  Defence  Science  and  Technology 

Laboratory ("DSTL"); and 

f. 

The  country  of Georgia  and  Georgian non-government  organizations  and 

private  companies,  including  through  a  spearphishing  campaign  in  and 

around January 2018  targeting a Georgian media outlet and a cyber attack 

in  and  around  October 2019  that  defaced  approximately  15,000  websites 

and disrupted service to  some of these websites. 

4 

THE DEFENDANTS 

4. 

Defendant  YURIY  SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO  was  a  Russian  military 

intelligence  officer  assigned  to  Military  Unit  74455.  ANDRIENKO,  together  with  PAVEL 

VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV, 

and  PETR 

NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN,  developed components of the NotPetya malware.  ANDRIENKO, 

together with PLISKIN, also developed components of the Olympic Destroyer malware. 

5. 

Defendant  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV  was  a  Russian  military 

intelligence officer assigned to  Military Unit 74455.  During his tenure with the unit, DETISTOV 

held the  position  of captain.  DETISTOV  developed  components  of the  NotPetya malware  and 

prepared infrastructure for a spearphishing campaign targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics. 

6. 

Defendant PAVEL VALERYEVICH FROLOV was a Russian military intelligence 

officer  assigned  to  Military  Unit  74455.  FROLOV  developed  components  of the  NotPetya 

malware  and  the  malware that the  Conspirators  used  against Ukraine's Ministry of Finance and 

State Treasury Service. 

7. 

Defendant  ANATOLIY  SERGEYEVICH  KOV ALEV  was  a  Russian  military 

intelligence  officer  assigned  to  Military  Unit  74455.  KOVALEV  sent  spearphishing  emails 

targeting  a wide variety of entities  and individuals,  including those  associated with French local 

government entities, political parties,  and campaigns; the 2018  Winter Olympics; the DSTL;  and 

a  Georgian  media  entity.  KOVALEV  also  engaged  in  spearphishing  campaigns  for  apparent 

personal profit,  including campaigns targeting large Russian real  estate companies,  auto  dealers, 

and  cryptocurrency  miners,  as  well  as  cryptocurrency  exchanges  located  outside  of Russia. 

5 

KOV ALEY  is  a  charged  defendant  in  federal  indictment  number  18-CR-215  in  the  District  of 

Columbia. 

8. 

Defendant  ARTEM  VALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO  served  as  a  Russian 

military intelligence officer in Military Unit 74455.  OCHICHENKO developed malicious email 

attachments  and  sent  spearphishing  emails  containing those  attachments  to  individuals working 

for 

the  2018  Winter  Olympics'  official 

timekeeping  partners  and 

their  subsidiaries. 

OCHICHENKO was also involved in the Conspirators' targeting of the Georgian government and 

other Georgian entities in 2019. 

9. 

Defendant  PETR  NIKOLAYEVICH  PLISKIN  served  as  a  Russian  military 

intelligence officer in Military Unit 74455 from the beginning ofthe conspiracy until in and around 

June  2018.  During  his  tenure  with  the  unit,  PLISKIN  served  in  a  supervisory  role  as  a 

Development  Team  Lead/IT  manager.  PLISKIN  developed  components  of the  NotPetya  and 

Olympic Destroyer malware. 

(Images of defendants ANDRIENKO, DETISTOV, FROLOV, KOVALEY, OCHICHENKO, and 

PLISKIN are attached as Exhibit A.) 

OBJECT OF THE CONSPIRACY 

10. 

The  object  of the  conspiracy  was  to  deploy  destructive  malware  and  take  other 

disruptive actions, for the strategic benefit of Russia, through unauthorized access ("hacking") of 

victim computers. 

MANNER AND MEANS OF THE CONSPIRACY 

11. 

In  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy,  ANDRIENKO,  DETISTOV,  FROLOV, 

KOVALEV,  OCHICHENKO,  PLISKIN,  and  others  known  and  unknown  to  the  grand  jury 

6 

procured,  maintained,  and  utilized  servers,  email  accounts,  malicious  mobile  applications,  and 

related hacking infrastructure to  engage in spearphishing campaigns and other network intrusion 

methods  against  computers  used  by  the  victims.  Also  in  furtherance  of  the  conspiracy, 

ANDRIENKO,  DETISTOV,  FROLOV,  and  PLISKIN  developed  and  deployed  destructive 

malware  against  victim  entities  around  the  world,  including  in  the  Western  District  of 

Pennsylvania. 

12. 

In order to  avoid detection by law enforcement,  security researchers,  and victims, 

and  to  mask  their  GRU  affiliation  and  location  in  Russia,  the  Conspirators  used  a  variety  of 

fictitious  names  and  personas,  as  well  as  online  infrastructure  (including  servers,  domains, 

cryptocurrency,  email  accounts,  social  media  accounts,  and  other  online  services)  provided  by 

companies in the United States and elsewhere.  The Conspirators used this infrastructure for a wide 

range  of conduct in furtherance  of the  conspiracy,  including to:  (1)  communicate,  research,  and 

probe  victim  computer  networks;  (2)  register  malicious  websites  and  domains  with  names 

mimicking  legitimate  ones;  (3)  send  spearphishing  emails;  ( 4)  store  and  distribute  additional 

malware;  (5)  manage  malware;  (6)  transfer  stolen  data;  and  (7)  negatively  influence  the  public 

perception of some  of the victims.  The  Conspirators  reused  some  of the  same  infrastructure  to 

target multiple victim organizations and individuals. 

13. 

To  further  mask  their  identities  and  conduct  and  to  facilitate  the  purchase  and 

leasing  of infrastructure  (such  as  servers  and  domain  names)  used  in their  hacking  activity,  the 

Conspirators  paid  for  infrastructure  using  cryptocurrencies,  such  as  bitcoin,  and  often  leased 

infrastructure  from  resellers  rather than  leasing  infrastructure  directly  from  hosting  companies. 

7 

The  Conspirators  also  used  numerous  operational  accounts  in  fictitious  names  to  purchase  and 

lease infrastructure. 

14. 

The  Conspirators  registered  domain  names  and  created  URLs  for  use  in  their 

hacking activities that were designed to mimic or "spoof' those oflegitimate websites that victims 

were  familiar  with,  including  email  login  pages,  online  file  sharing  and  storage  websites,  and 

password  reset  pages.  Examples  include  msrole.com/office_conf (which  mimicked  a  website 

belonging  to  Microsoft)  and  jeojang.ga  (with  respect  to  which  the  Conspirators  created  the 

subdomain mafra.go.kr.jeojang.ga, which mimicked a website belonging to  the  Korean Ministry 

of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Affairs, 

The Conspirators used each ofthese domain 

names  in connection with spearphishing campaigns  targeting entities  and  individuals  associated 

with the 2018 Winter Olympics. 

15. 

The  Conspirators  typically  initiated  their  hacking  activities  by  researching  the 

victim organizations, including their computer networks and  employees.  This research provided 

technical and biographical information that the Conspirators could exploit in subsequent intrusion 

activities (e.g., spearphishing campaigns). 

16. 

The  Conspirators  crafted  their  spearphishing  emails  to  trick  unwitting  recipients 

into giving the Conspirators access to their computers or account credentials (e.g., usernames and 

passwords).  The  Conspirators crafted these  emails to  resemble emails from trustworthy senders, 

such as  email providers or colleagues, and encouraged the recipients to click on hyperlinks in the 

messages.  Other spearphishing emails crafted by the Conspirators attached documents containing 

malware that, when opened and executed by the victims, infected victims'  computers. 

8 

17. 

The  Conspirators  used  malware  and  hacking  tools  such  as  "BlackEnergy," 

"Industroyer," "KillDisk," "NotPetya," and "Olympic Destroyer" to  hack into  victim computers 

and  networks,  maintain command and  control  over  such computers  and networks,  steal network 

credentials,  obtain access  to  sensitive and private data,  and  render such computers  and networks 

inoperable.  To  craft their malware, the  Conspirators customized publicly available malware and 

hacking  tools,  and,  in  some  instances,  purposefully  attempted  to  mimic  the  malware  of other 

hacking groups-including the Lazarus Group, a state-sponsored hacking team in the Democratic 

People's  Republic  of Korea  (which  is  also  known  as  North  Korea)-as  part  of a  "false  flag" 

operation.  The  Conspirators  also  created  certain  malware  components  from  scratch,  including 

components enabling the Conspirators to  conduct the destructive portions of their attacks. 

18. 

After  hacking  into  victim  computers,  the  Conspirators  performed  a  variety  of 

functions  designed  to  identify,  collect,  package,  and  view targeted  data on  victims'  computers, 

including  stealing  credentials  that  allowed the  Conspirators  to  move  laterally and  exponentially 

throughout victims'  computer networks.  The  Conspirators  also  overwrote files  and  erased  data 

from victim computers. 

19. 

In addition, both during and after operational activity, the Conspirators made efforts 

to  cover their tracks by deleting information from their operational accounts and deleting data on 

servers they controlled or had compromised. 

COMPUTER INTRUSIONS AND  OTHER OVERT ACTS 

The 2015  and 2016 Attacks Targeting Ukraine's Electric Power Grid 

20. 

On  or  about  December  23,  2015,  the  Conspirators  hacked  into  the  computer 

systems  belonging  to  three  Ukrainian  energy  distribution  companies,  interacted  remotely  with 

9 

control  systems  in  dozens  of  power  distribution  substations  used  by  these  companies,  and 

successfully disrupted the supply of electricity to more than 225,000 Ukrainian customers. 

21. 

The preparations for this attack commenced in and around late spring 2015, when 

the  Conspirators  used  spearphishing  emails  to  obtain  access  into  the  three  energy  distribution 

companies'  computer systems and then used destructive malware against the computer systems. 

a. 

The  spearphishing  campaign 

targeted 

the  companies' 

information 

technology staff and system administrators using emails attaching malware­

laced files. 

b. 

Once  they  had  obtained  access  to  the  victims'  computer  systems,  the 

Conspirators used a particular variant of malware called "BlackEnergy" to 

steal user credentials.  The Conspirators used the stolen credentials to access 

the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition ("SCADA") networks at the 

Ukrainian  energy  distribution  companies.  The  Conspirators  also  used 

destructive  malware  called  "KillDisk"  at  the  conclusion  of the  attacks  to 

delete  computer  event  logs  and  other  files  and  reboot  the  infected 

computers.  Once rebooted, the infected computers were inoperable. 

22. 

Almost a year later, on or about December 17, 2016, the Conspirators conducted a 

computer intrusion  against  a Ukrainian  electric  transmission  company  ("Electric  Company  l "). 

Electric Company 1 's computer network had been compromised by the Conspirators since in and 

around April 2016.  In furtherance of the attack, the Conspirators used malware-which was later 

named "Industroyer" by cybersecurity researchers-that was specifically designed to attack power 

grids by gaining control of electrical substation switches and circuit breakers. 

23. 

The  malware  included  a  disk  wiper  plugin  that  the  Conspirators  used  to  delete 

Electric  Company  1's  key  system  files  with  certain  file  extensions  (including  common  file 

extensions such as .zip and .exe, as well as file extensions specific to the brand of industrial control 

system  used  by Electric  Company  1),  thus  rendering  Electric  Company  1's computer  operating 

systems inoperable.  In addition, the Conspirators' deployment ofthe malware disrupted the supply 

of electricity to  Kiev,  Ukraine, for approximately one hour. 

The December 2016 Attacks Against Ukraine's 
Ministry of Finance and State Treasury Service 

24. 

On or about December 6,  2016, while Ukraine was preparing end-of-year pension 

payments as  well as  the  following year's budget,  the  Conspirators deployed destructive malware 

against Ukraine's Ministry of Finance and  State  Treasury  Service.  As  a result of the  attack,  the 

State  Treasury  Service's  regional  subdivisions  were  disconnected  from  the  State  Treasury 

Service's  automated  payment  system,  preventing  the  execution  of  approximately  150,000 

electronic  transactions.  In  addition,  the  attack  temporarily  disabled  the  Ministry  of Finance's 

information and telecommunication infrastructure. 

25. 

The  attack  against the  State  Treasury  Service  began in and  around  October 2016 

with a spearphishing campaign that targeted the Service's system administrators. 

a. 

The  spearphishing  campaign  utilized  emails  containing  a  malware-laced 

Microsoft Excel file called "MoF critical IT needs_eng.xls." 

b. 

The State Treasury Service's computer network was compromised by in and 

around  October  2016  after  a  system  administrator  for  the  Service  opened 

the  Microsoft  Excel  file  and  enabled  macros  for  the  file.  Allowing  the 

macros  to  run  resulted  in  the  execution  of  the  malware-laced  file 

11 

"explorer.exe" on the  employee's  computer,  which ultimately  established 

unauthorized,  covert encrypted  communication between the computer and 

a third-party service used by the Conspirators. 

c. 

The  Conspirators thereafter used  a dedicated network connection between 

the  State  Treasury  Service  and  Ukraine's  Ministry  of Finance  to  obtain 

unauthorized access to the Ministry of Finance's computer network. 

26. 

On or about December 6,  2016,  the  Conspirators  deployed  an updated version of 

the  KillDisk  malware-which  was  very  similar  to  the  version  of the  KillDisk  malware  the 

Conspirators used in the December 2015  cyber attacks against Ukraine's electric power grid-to: 

(1)  delete the  infected computers'  Windows  event logs;  (2)  delete  all  of the  files  that matched  a 

list  of file  extensions  hardcoded  into  the  malware;  and  (3)  overwrite  portions  of the  infected 

computers'  hard drives, thus rendering the computers inoperable. 

a. 

Once executed, the KillDisk malware used three different options to invoke 

different behaviors:  (1)  an option to  set a specific date and time to  execute 

the malware's destructive mode; (2) an option to specify a desired delay, in 

minutes, before executing the destructive mode; and (3) an option to specify 

desired functionality,  including the malware's destructive mode.  Once the 

KillDisk  malware  verified  which  options  were  selected,  it  prepared  the 

infected computer system for file  destruction. 

b. 

To  do  this,  the  KillDisk  malware  prepared  several  locations  in  the 

computer's  memory  for  overwriting  files  by  allocating  a  set  area  in  the 

computer's  memory.  The  KillDisk  malware  filled  the  first  allocated 

12 

memory  location  with  zeros  and  filled  the  second  and  third  allocated 

memory  locations  with  the  repeated  term  "mrR0b07"  and  "fS0cie7y," 

respectively,  which reference  the television show "Mr.  Robot."  After the 

three  allocated memory locations  were  filled  with zeros,  "mrR0b07," and 

"fS0cie7y," the KillDisk malware obtained a computer system privilege that 

allowed it to access all available files on the compromised computer system. 

c. 

FROLOV and other Conspirators designed the KillDisk malware such that 

the third option could create an art image of the "fsociety" mask from "Mr. 

Robot."  The  KillDisk  malware  did  not  store  an  image  of the  "fsociety" 

mask within the malware.  Instead, FROLOV designed the malware to draw 

the  image  in real  time  on the  infected  computer's  screen.  The  "fsociety" 

mask  was  computed  from  the  following  bitmap  array  embedded  in  the 

malware: 

13 

d. 

Once  the  "fsociety"  mask  image  was  drawn  in  memory,  the  malware 

displayed the  image  on  the  victim's computer  screen  on  top  of all  other 

graphical windows: 

e. 

The  third  option  could  also  enable  KillDisk  to  destroy  all  files  on  the 

infected  computer  that  ended  with  one  of more  than  100  different  file 

extensions.  To destroy  each  file  on  compromised  computers,  KillDisk: 

(1)  overwrote  the  entire  file  with  zeros,  (2)  deleted  the  file  and  then 

recreated it with the same name, and (3) populated the file with the repeating 

string "mrR0b07" or "fS0cie7y"  as  described above.  To determine which 

string to populate, Kill Disk generated a random number; if the nwnber was 

odd, "mrR0b07" was written, and if the number was even, "fS0cie7y" was 

written.  After  all  of the  files  were  destroyed,  KillDisk  rebooted  the 

compromised  computer  systems,  which  were  inoperable  because  the 

malware had destroyed all of the key system files. 

14 

f. 

The  Conspirators  designed  KillDisk  to  attempt to  clear the  event  logs  on 

compromised  computers  in  order  to  make  it  more  difficult  for  forensic 

investigators to obtain digital evidence. 

Interference in the 2017 French Elections 

27. 

From on or about April 3, 2017, tln·ough on or about May 3,  2017 (during the days 

leading up to the May 7,  201 7, presidential election in France), the Conspirators conducted seven 

spearphishing  campaigns  targeting  more  than  100  individuals  who  were  members  of  now­

President  Macron's  "La Republique  En  Marchel"  ("En  Marche!")  political  party,  other  French 

politicians and high-profile individuals, and several email addresses  associated with local French 

governments.  The topics  of these  campaigns  included public security announcements regarding 

terrorist attacks,  email account lockouts,  software updates for voting machines, journalist scoops 

on  political  scandals,  En  Marche!  press  relationships,  and  En  Marchel  internal  cybersecurity 

recommendations. 

28. 

KOV ALEV  participated  in  some  of these  campaigns.  For  example,  on  or  about 

April  21,  2017,  KOV ALEV  developed  and  tested a technique  for  sending  spearphishing  emails 

themed  around  file  sharing  through  Google  Docs.  KOVALEV  then  crafted  a  malware-laced 

document entitled "Qui_peut_parler_ aux journalists.docx" (which translates to  "Who can talk to 

journalists") that purported  to  list nine  En Marchel  staff members  who  could  talk to journalists 

about  the  previous  day's  terrorist  attack  on  the  Champs-Elysees  in  Paris.  Later  that  day,  the 

Conspirators  used  an  email  account  that  mimicked  the  name  of then-candidate  Macron's  press 

secretary  to  send  a  Google  Docs-themed  spearphishing  email  to  approximately  30  En Marchel 

staff members or advisors, which purported to  share this document. 

15 

29. 

From  on  or  about  April  12,  2017,  until  on  or  about  April  26,  2017,  a  GRU-

controlled social media account communicated with various French individuals offering to provide 

them with internal documents from En Marchel that the user(s) of the account claimed to possess. 

30. 

On  or  about  May  3  and  May  5,  2017,  unidentified  individuals  began  to  leak 

documents purporting to be from the En Marchel  campaign's email accounts. 

The NotPetya Malware Attacks 

31. 

On  or  about  June  27,  2017-on the  eve  of Ukraine's  Constitution  Day,  which 

commemorates the country's departure from the Soviet Union-the Conspirators executed a series 

of malware attacks  to  render inoperable the computer systems used by Ukrainian organizations, 

including banks, newspapers, and electricity companies.  The malware used in the attacks was later 

named "NotPetya" by cybersecurity researchers.  Because the NotPetya malware was designed to 

spread  to  connected  networks  belonging  to  other  victims,  the  attacks  also  rendered  inoperable 

computer systems belonging to victims in other countries, including in the United States. 

32. 

In  particular,  the  NotPetya  malware  compromised  computer  systems  at  two 

hospitals,  60  physician  offices,  and  18  community  satellite  facilities  belonging  to  the  Heritage 

Valley Health System ("Heritage Valley"), which, at all times during the conspiracy, was located 

in  Sewickley, Pennsylvania,  and Beaver,  Pennsylvania,  in the  Western District of Pennsylvania. 

All of Heritage Valley's internet traffic was routed through servers located in the Western District 

of Pennsylvania, and all of the resulting damage and its effects, including those to mission-critical 

computer  systems,  impacted  Heritage  Valley's  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  in  the 

Western District of Pennsylvania. 

16 

33. 

The  Conspirators  designed  NotPetya  to  masquerade  as  ransomware,  a  type  of 

malware that encrypts and blocks access to a victim's computer system and/or files until the victim 

pays a ransom.  In particular, the Conspirators designed the NotPetya malware to emulate already­

existing ransomware  called "Petya."  However,  the  purported ransomware  purpose  of NotPetya 

was  a  ruse.  Unlike  Petya-which displayed  a  ransom  note  on  infected  computers  demanding 

money and where, upon payment of the ransom, the computers could be decrypted-the N otPetya 

malware  operated  such  that,  even  if victims  paid  the  ransom  ($300  worth  of  bitcoin),  the 

Conspirators would not be able to  decrypt and recover the victims' computer files. 

34. 

The  Conspirators  disseminated the  NotPetya malware  using  a popular Ukrainian 

accounting  software  called  M.E.Doc  that  was  used  to  facilitate  the  communication  of  tax 

information  to  the  Ukrainian  government.  The  software  was  periodically  updated  through  an 

update  server  (the  "Update  Server").  The  Conspirators  commenced the  NotPetya attacks  on  or 

about June 27, 2017, when they rerouted internet traffic from (1)  computers attempting to  update 

the  M.E.Doc  software  via  the  Update  Server  to  (2)  a  France-based  server  controlled  by  the 

Conspirators.  This  France-based  server  delivered  the  malware  to  the  victim  computers  that 

connected to  it. 

35. 

Each  organization  that  conducts  business  in  Ukraine  has  a  unique  legal  entity 

identifier  called  an  EDRPOU  number  (Ko~  €,D;PIIOY),  which  is  similar to  a tax  identification 

number in the United  States.  The Update  Server hosted  a website  (the  "Certification Website") 

that  was  used  to  check  whether  a  company  had  a  valid  certificate  for  verifying  electronic 

signatures.  Entering a company's EDRPOU number into the Certification Website would reveal 

17 

whether the  company had a  valid certificate  as  well  as  the  name  of the  entity  associated  with a 

given EDRPOU number. 

36. 

Beginning in and  around April  2017,  the  Conspirators,  including ANDRIENKO, 

PLISKIN, and FROLOV, familiarized themselves with the EDRPOU and M.E.Doc, including by 

querying the EDRPOU website and computer language sets specific to the Ukrainian alphabet. 

37. 

The M.E.Doc software on customer networks periodically connected to the Update 

Server to  check for  new software updates.  The  Conspirators gained access to  the  software code 

for  the  M.E.Doc  software  prior  to  the  NotPetya  attacks,  which  allowed  the  Conspirators  to 

surreptitiously  add  malicious  functionality  to  the  files  containing  the  software  updates  (the 

"Update  Files").  The  Conspirators  modified Update  Files on or about April  14,  2017;  May  15, 

201 7;  and  June  21,  201 7.  Computers  receiving  M.E.Doc  software  updates  downloaded  these 

Update Files, but the NotPetya malware file was not pushed to these computers by the Conspirators 

until on or about June 27, 2017. 

a. 

On or about April  14,  2017, the  Conspirators published the first malicious 

Update File to the M.E.Doc Update Server.  Before publishing the Update 

File, the Conspirators added computer code into the file  to  collect a  list of 

all EDRPOUs associated with computers using the M.E.Doc software that 

had downloaded the Update File. 

b. 

The  malicious  Update  File  also  caused  victim  computers  to  send  a  web 

request  to  the  Update  Server  containing  a  cookie  comprised  of:  (1)  the 

EDRPOU  list,  and  (2)  the  computer  usemame  that  was  logged  into  the 

computer that was running the M.E.Doc software.  Once the  Conspirators 

18 

redirected web traffic from the Update  Server to  the  Conspirators'  France­

based server on June 27, 2017,  the  Conspirators received this  information 

from incoming web requests. 

c. 

On or  about  June  21,  2017,  the  Conspirators published another  malicious 

software update to the Update Server.  This Update File closely resembled 

the April 2017 version and would ultimately deliver the NotPetya malware. 

d. 

In  some  instances,  the  Conspirators  accessed the  Update  Server using the 

Certification  Website  to  query  EDRPOU  numbers  in  order  to  identify 

organizations that had downloaded a malicious Update File. 

38. 

On or about June 27,  2017,  from  approximately  12:14 p.m. to  3:31  p.m.  Moscow 

Time, the June 21, 2017, Update File delivered the NotPetya malware to computers that attempted 

to receive the software update from the Update Server. 

a. 

The  malware  was  delivered  to  these  computers  while  the  Conspirators 

temporarily  rerouted  network  traffic  bound  for  the  Update  Server  to  the 

France-based server controlled by the Conspirators.  As a result, computers 

attempting  to  receive  the  software  update  instead  connected  to  the 

Conspirators'  server in France and downloaded the malware. 

b. 

Once  victim  computers  downloaded  the  malicious  Update  File  and  the 

Conspirators rerouted the network traffic, victim computers could remotely 

receive  and  execute  commands  from  the  Conspirators.  With  these 

commands, the Conspirators could perform a variety of actions with respect 

19 

to  the victims'  computer systems,  including obtaining system information 

and accessing, modifying, creating, and executing files. 

c. 

As designed by the Conspirators, once the malware was downloaded onto a 

computer,  it  attempted  to  escalate  its  privileges  and  determine  whether 

particular antivirus processes were running on the computer.  The malware 

then  attempted  to  identify  other  computers  on  the  same  network  to 

potentially  compromise;  if the  malware  had  obtained  a  particular  system 

privilege,  it attempted to  extract and execute  a credential stealing program 

and/or  escalate  its  privileges  to  achieve  lateral  movement  to  other 

computers on the network. 

d. 

Once the malware file was copied to victim computers, one of two methods 

was used to  execute the malware.  FROLOV and other Conspirators coded 

the malware such that,  if both methods  failed,  the malware spread itself to 

other  victim  computers  using  either 

the  exploit  EtemalBlue  or 

EternalRomance,  which  allowed  the  Conspirators'  malware  to  covertly 

com1ect to the computers without valid credentials.  After victim computers 

were  confirmed  to  be  vulnerable  to  either  the  EtemalRomance  or 

EternalBlue exploit, the malware would copy itself to and execute on those 

computers. 

e. 

The  Conspirators  programmed  the  malware  such  that,  after  attempting 

lateral  movement  within  the  compromised  computer's  network,  the 

malware  searched  for  files  ending with dozens  of different file  extensions 

20 

and  began encrypting those files on the compromised computer.  Once the 

files were encrypted, the malware created a text file inside every folder that 

contained encrypted files.  The text file contained the N otPetya ransom note, 

which was later displayed on victim computers as in the exan1ple below: 

f. 

DETISTOV and other Conspirators coded the malwarc such that, after the 

malware encrypted the files, it restarted the compromised computer using a 

shutdown command. 

g. 

DETISTOV  and  other  Conspirators  also  programmed  the  malware  such 

that,  depending  on  the  type  of operating  system,  and  after  the  malware 

identified  files that were  encrypted,  it would try various  ways to make it 

more difficult for forensic investigators to obtain digital evidence, including 

by deleting logs. 

21 

39. 

On or about June 27, 2017, at approximately 7:23  a.m.  Eastern Daylight Time, the 

first  computer in the Heritage Valley Health System's computer network became infected by the 

N otPetya malware.  The  infection  occurred  as  the  result  of a  connection  between  the  Heritage 

Valley computer and the  computer network of another entity that had itself been infected by the 

NotPetya malware.  By stealing and using Heritage Valley user credentials to  self-propagate, the 

malware  then  spread  from  the  initial  infected  Heritage  Valley  computer to  other  computers  on 

Heritage Valley's computer network. 

40. 

For the next several hours, Heritage Valley's computer hard drives were encrypted; 

workstations were locked; patient lists, patient medical history information, physical examination 

files,  and prior laboratory records were  inaccessible (so  pre-operative laboratory work needed to 

be  redone);  and  Heritage  Valley's  servers  were  inaccessible.  The  attack  also  caused  Heritage 

Valley to lose access to its mission-critical computer systems (such as those relating to cardiology, 

nuclear medicine,  radiology,  and  surgery)  for  approximately one  week and  other  administrative 

computer systems for almost one month.  In addition to disrupting Heritage Valley's provision of 

critical healthcare to residents ofthe Western District of Pennsylvania, Heritage Valley spent more 

than $2 million responding to,  and recovering from,  the attack. 

41. 

Heritage Valley was one of many victims of the NotPetya malware attacks on June 

27, 2017.  For example, FedEx Corporation spent approximately $400 million responding to, and 

recovering from,  the attack on its  subsidiary TNT Express B.V.'s computer systems,  and a large 

U.S.  pharmaceutical manufacturer spent in excess of $500 million responding to,  and recovering 

from, the attack on its computer systems. 

22 

42. 

On  or  about  June  27,  2017,  after  the  deployment  of the  NotPetya  malware, 

ANDRIENKO, PLISKIN, and other Conspirators celebrated the attack. 

The Attacks Against the 2018 Winter Olympics 

Background 

43. 

In 2014, a German documentary titled "Top Secret Doping: How Russia Makes its 

Winners"  aired  interviews  of a husband  and  wife,  who  were  a  Russian  anti-doping  official  and 

athlete,  respectively,  who  both  admitted  to  participation  in the  Russian  state-sponsored  doping 

program.  Shortly thereafter, the World Anti-Doping Agency ("WADA") launched an Independent 

Commission ("IC") to  investigate the validity of the allegations.  In a November 2015  report, the 

WADA  IC  released  its  findings,  namely,  it  "confirmed  the  existence  of widespread  cheating 

through the use of doping substances and methods to  ensure, or enhance the likelihood of,  victory 

for  [Russian]  athletes and teams."  The IC made "specific findings" regarding the involvement of 

the Russian Federal Security Service ("FSB") in Russia's efforts to  evade anti-doping procedures 

and protections. 

44. 

In May 2016, a prominent television newsmagazine and newspaper each published 

stories regarding allegations from the husband and wife whistleblowers, as  well as  a new Russian 

whistleblower who had previously managed Russia's anti-doping laboratory.  The whistleblowers 

all  alleged  a  Russian  state-sponsored  doping  effort  at  the  2014  Sochi  Winter  Olympics. 

In 

response, WADA named an "independent person" ("IP") to  investigate their allegations. 

45. 

On July 18, 2016, the WADA-appointed IP published his first report, the "McLaren 

Report,"  regarding  Russia's  systematic  state-sponsored subversion of the  drug  testing  processes 

prior  to,  during  and  subsequent  to  the  2014  Sochi  Winter  Olympics.  WADA's  Executive 

23 

Committee  issued  a  statement accompanying this  report,  which recommended that the  IOC  and 

the International Paralympic Committee ("IPC") "decline entries for Rio  [Olympics]  2016,  of all 

athletes  submitted  by  the  Russian  Olympic  Committee  ("ROC")  and  the  Russian  Paralympic 

Committee." 

46. 

On July  24,  2016,  the  IOC  Executive  Board  announced  a "preliminary decision" 

(later affirmed by the broader IOC) that, as  a result of the WADA IP's report, individual sporting 

federations could exclude Russian athletes from the 2016 Rio Summer Olympics.  Ultimately, 111 

Russian athletes were barred from participation in the Olympics.  The IPC issued a blanket ban of 

Russian athletes for the 2016 Rio  Summer Paralympics. 

47. 

On December 2,  2017, after seventeen months of investigation and the issuance of 

an  additional  McLaren  Report,  the  Schmid  Commission-a separate  Disciplinary  Commission 

tasked  with  investigating  the  McLaren  Reports'  findings~reported  that  it  concurred  with 

McLaren's  conclusions  regarding  '"the  existence  of a  systematic  doping  scheme  in  Russia,' 

involving  the  'systematic  manipulation  of the  anti-doping  rules  and  system  in  Russia."'  The 

Schmid Commission further confirmed the involvement of a number of individuals within Russia's 

Ministry of Sport and its subordinate entities. 

48. 

On  December  5,  2017,  in response  to  the  Schmid  Commission Report,  the  IOC, 

among  other  sanctions,  suspended  the  Russian  Olympic  Committee  and  its  president  and 

prohibited Russian athletes from participating in the 2018 Winter Olympics under the Russian flag 

(instead allowing demonstrably clean athletes to compete as "Olympic Athletes from Russia").  In 

response, the Conspirators designed a multi-faceted campaign to  attack and disrupt the Olympics 

by  conducting  computer  intrusions  against  Olympic  partners  and  athletes,  South  Korean 

24 

government agencies, the  roe, South Korean nationals and international visitors to  South Korea, 

and infonnation technology providers supporting the Olympic Games. 

The  Spearphishing Campaign Targeting the 2018 Winter  Olympics 

49. 

The Conspirators'  preparations for targeting the roe, the Olympics, and  Olympic 

partners (i.e.,  companies that provided services to  or otherwise sponsored the Olympics) through 

spearphishing  campaigns  commenced  in  and  around  early  November  2017,  approximately  one 

month  before  the  IOC  suspended  the  Russian  Olympic  Committee  and  its  president.  Over 

approximately  the  next  two  months,  the  Conspirators  conducted  reconnaissance,  tested 

spearphishing  emails,  and  sent  spearphishing  emails  relating  to  the  roe,  including  emails 

purporting to be from the roe and spearphishing emails sent to members of the roe. 

a. 

On or about November 28, 2017, KOVALEV crafted a spearphishing email 

purporting to be from the "rOC Commission Chairman."  The email offered 

recipients  a "list of delegates  and their  contacts,"  who  would purportedly 

help "deal with any issues during the Olympics." 

b. 

Later that  same  day,  the  Conspirators  sent  a version  of the  spearphishing 

email  that  KOV ALEV  crafted  (the  only  difference  being  that  the 

spearphishing email purported to  be  from  a Vice-President of the  IOC)  to 

29  email  addresses  hosted  at  the  rOC's  domain  pyeongchang2018.com. 

The  Conspirators  thereafter  deleted  the  email.  The  email  was  sent  by 

olympicgameinfo@gmail.com, 

included 

the  subject 

line  "List  of 

Delegates,"  and  attached  a  .zip  file  entitled  "List  of  Delegates"  that 

contained  a  malware-laced  Microsoft  Word  file.  Approximately  two 

25 

minutes later, the Conspirators used olympicgameinfo@gmai l.com to send 

an identical email to six email addresses hosted at a domain belonging to a 

Pyeongchang resort that hosted Olympic skiing events. 

50. 

The Conspirators also conducted reconnaissance, tested spearphishing emails, and 

sent spearphishing emails relating to Olympic partners, including to employees of these partners. 

a. 

On  or  about  December  4,  2017,  the  Conspirators  conducted  online 

reconnaissance  of 2018  Olympic  paiiners,  which  corresponded  with  a 

public list of such partners available at pyeongchang2018.com/en/partners. 

b. 

On or about December 6, 2017,  and December 7, 2017, the  Conspirators, 

using  olympicgameinfo@gmail.com,  sent  approximately  twenty-eight 

Olympics-themed  spearphishing  emails  with  the  subject  line  "Further 

cooperation proposal."  These emails (an example ofwhich is shown below) 

listed the same individual on the signature line as the November 28, 2017, 

spearphishing emai l and targeted approximately 220 email addresses hosted 

at domains belonging to several Olympic partners, as well as the IOC: 

From  IOC Info <olympicg1mtlnfoOgm1il,com>* 

SubJtcl  Furthe< coopcr,tlon propoul 

To 

4,  Reply  ., Reply All Iv  ..+  Fotword  t  Jun~  8 Ot lelc  More v
lZ/7/2017, 1:07 AM 

1more 

*·-----*· 

Dear partners, 
The preparations for the XXIII Olympic Winter Games have successfully ended, and In this connect1on we would like to express our gratitude to 
you. We would be happy to foster our cooperation and present a 11st of our commercial offers. 

Looking forward to further cooperation, 

Ms. 
Vice-President of lntemational Olympic Committee, Executive Members 

~ 

INTERNATI ONA i 
O LY MPI C 
COMM I TTEE 

>  @11tt1chmtnt  Commtrd il0fftr1.1ip  7.4 KB 

26 

!nS.Vt  V

c. 

On  or  about  December  7,  2017,  the  Conspirators  sent  approximately  78 

Korean-language spearphishing emails from alert.safekorea@gmail.com to 

email addresses hosted at domains belonging to five Olympic partners.  The 

emails,  which  purported  to  have  been  sent  by  the  Korean  "Ministry  of 

Public Safety and Security" (~'2.12l'B:x:·0,  contained the subject line "Breaking 

News  - Earthquake"  and  included  a message  warning  recipients  about  an 

earthquake.  The  attached  .zip  file  contained  a  malware-laced  Microsoft 

Word  file  that  downloaded  additional  content  from  the  conspirator­

controlled domain templates-library.ml. 

d. 

On  or  about  December  8,  2017,  the  Conspirators  scanned  Korean-based 

network infrastructure for vulnerabilities.  The Conspirators thereafter used 

alert.safekorea@gmail.com 

to 

send 

six 

spearphishing  emails 

to 

approximately  98  email  addresses  hosted  at  domains  belonging  to  three 

Olympic partners, including the Korean Sport and Olympic Committee. 

e. 

On  or  about  December  13,  2017,  the  Conspirators  conducted  technical 

research  to  identify  vulnerabilities  with  respect  to  websites  used  by  the 

Korean  Sport  and  Olympic  Committee,  a Korean  power  company,  and  a 

Korean airport. 

51. 

In  support  of their  spearphishing  campaigns,  the  Conspirators  frequently  used  a 

service that allows  individuals to  send emails to  numerous recipients simultaneously (the "Email 

Service").  The  Conspirators  used  the  Email  Service  in  connection  with  Olympics-related  (and 

other)  spearphishing  campaigns  to  send  emails  appearing  to  come  from  email  addresses  at 

27 

legitimate  organizations'  domains  that the  Conspirators  did not  control  and had  instead  spoofed 

(e.g.,  the  IOC's  pyeongchang2018.com  domain).  With  these  spearphishing  emails,  the 

Conspirators  targeted  parts  of  the  Republic  of  Korea's  government,  Olympic  athletes,  and 

additional official Olympic partners. 

a. 

On  or  about  December  21,  2017,  DETISTOV  conducted  online 

reconnaissance  of the  Korean  Ministry  of Agriculture,  Food,  and  Rural 

Affairs 

or "MAFRA") and its website (mafra.go.kr). 

b. 

On or about December 27, 2017, KOVALEV crafted a spearphishing email 

related to  MAFRA that contained an image  with an embedded link to  the 

subdomain  mafra.go.kr.jeojang.ga,  which  the  Conspirators  created  to 

emulate  MAFRA's  website  (i.e.,  the  same  URL,  but  without jeojang.ga). 

The  Conspirators  had  registered  the  jeojang.ga  domain  on  or  about 

December 22, 2017. 

c. 

On  or  about  December  28,  2017,  KOV ALEV  crafted  and  sent  another 

spearphishing  email  that  was  spoofed  using  the  Email  Service  so  that  it 

would appear to  have been sent by info@nctc.go.kr, the official domain of 

South  Korea's  National  Counterterrorism  Center.  This  email  included  a 

malware-laced  document  that  downloaded  an  image  file;  the  file  used  an 

open-source steganography tool to establish an encrypted channel from the 

recipient's  computer  to  the  Conspirators'  command-and-control  server. 

This  open-source  tool,  known  as  Invoke-PSimage,  had  been  released 

publicly only eight days earlier. 

28 

d. 

On or about  January  10  and  11,  2018,  KOVALEV  crafted  spearphishing 

emails that were to be spoofed using the Email Service so  that they would 

appear  to  be  from  planning.department@pyeongchang2018.com  and 

plam1ing.department@olympic.org; these emails contained the subject line 

"Accommodation  conditions  in  hotel"  and  attached  malware-laced  files. 

The body of the emails included the following text:  "Dear athletes!  Please 

pay attention to the changed living conditions in the hotel complex.  Yours 

faithfully, Accommodation Planning Department." 

e. 

On or about January  12,  2018, KOVALEV used the Email  Service to send 

emails  purporting  to  be  from  service.department@olympic.org  to  target 

Olympic  athletes.  These  emails  included  the  accommodations-related 

language that KOVALEV had crafted over the prior two days. 

f. 

On  or  about  January  31,  2018,  the  Conspirators  created  the  operational 

email account nctc.go@gmail.com  and used it to  register  an account with 

the Email Service. 

g. 

Later,  on  or  about  February  5,  2018,  the  Conspirators  used  the  Email 

Service  account  registered  with  the  nctc.go@gmail.com  email  address  to 

send  a  spearphishing  email,  which  was  spoofed  to  appear  to  be  from 

info.kr@nctc.go.kr, 

to  an  account  belonging 

to  a  South  Korean 

telecommunications  company  that  was  listed  as  an  Olympic  partner  at 

pyeongchang2018. com/ en/partners. 

29 

h. 

On or about February 5  and  6,  2018,  the  Conspirators  also  used the  same 

Email  Service account to  send spearphishing emails to  20  email addresses 

used by the South Korean National Counterterrorism Center. 

52. 

The Conspirators also  conducted reconnaissance, tested spearphishing emails, and 

sent  spearphishing  emails  relating  to  the  2018  Winter  Olympics'  official  timekeeping  partners, 

including to  employees of these partners. 

a. 

From on or about November 9, 2017, through on or about February 1, 2018, 

OCHICHENKO conducted reconnaissance relating to  South Korea and the 

2018  Winter  Olympics,  as  well  as  more  technical  research  relating  to 

techniques  and services that OCHICHENKO would later use to  conduct a 

spearphishing campaign targeting the 2018 Winter Olympics' timekeeping 

partners, including the entity that provided official timekeeping services at 

the 2018 Winter Olympics (the "Olympic Timekeeping Service Company") 

and the entity providing timekeeping devices for the Olympics. 

b. 

On  or  about  January  31,  2018,  after  months  of preparatory  activities, 

OCHICHENKO sent spearphishing emails to three email accounts used by 

the  Olympic Timekeeping Service  Company.  The  emails  were written in 

French  and  purported  to  contain  the  resume  of an  individual  who  was 

applying  for  a  position  as  a  "Field  Operations  Developer."  The  emails 

included an attachment that,  when opened,  displayed  a  blurred version of 

the  resume  and a  pop-up  about needing to  enable  certain features  to  view 

the document.  As designed, after the recipient clicked the option to  enable 

30 

the  features,  the  blurred  image  would  be  removed,  and  a  malicious 

PowerShell  script  would  run  and  call  out  to  the  malicious  website 

msrole.com/office_conf,  which  was  hosted  on  a  domain  that 

the 

Conspirators registered on or about November 15, 201 7,  to  download the 

next stage of the malware: 

.._.,,.....,..._ 

Atlllntlon: La flehler contlent des donnMS conlldentlelles. 
Pour consultllr le docu..-t, e<tlve :  i .  macros Word. 

Adresu: 
Fran<t 
T~I : 
Couttkl : 

~ m,,,~ l O.  l  l.JAJ\.il0 ,  s. o  . YI.NlT,  T~~IU.s.mc:1t\, 
I.M1'f  f,~._ ~ NO, M O'OIO'fl ~ k-,• lOOI •  2010. Jk"tftOh  111.  AV Nll', S0t M""ff 
JC1M&,-.SC:..i.atwt1,,c,;tr•',(ljl\s.Mc."("iSlWls.r...ttwiooft111&"~" 

t),•f..iSff,IM'tN'tlOOl•Prnffll 
,O .~ ,a , , ;~~  
T~ 
Cont,.,.~M.-.~I 100l.l9"1r''IO"lllrnd& \l•ttitl'lo,w  f Q.~S.-

~W°"' Y1 I  !t-l, .N(T t1,1ftlltw0f\ JS. WC/  WCI  RAA ~H . Lriq fe jql Cl l~H', 
C~  DWr  ..,_..,., r.,,.....,Otl.,..""""i .. ~ ,-1u.i •  r•~ ~-""l" 1,1,..  N, 
~O'M\Wt ,,,,,,_,,OW rftfol'<W'Pf i'l ~..,.;,fldl~ k-i ,,... 
I i i ; \~  0. /,tih~.-(ti,;,;,  U  (.Ol'l(•JlliOI\ ..~ lt  ~ f'f' "'<• t i  t~~ f t  f  "Ufl 
wtlt•f"•omWI M11!~1iffl'W.,,t.,._ 

O.••  tf"!I,_ 1C01 •  ~~ 1001 
,V.'NW!  Qw,f .....,,-
1~  Nn  frJll'MWQft  11),  (  I  Vil-HI St&.144  zoo,,,  TlQ.. JO. krw 100\  6  \QA.  kMf 
~ltl-ft• ~,.."'°'~IUIS~~IOoffl&Ceffif,Mll•UIA,iipl,u•bf\llDf'-f..-......,""'lll,!•,.,.. i"WIOIHW. 
Mlo'tw•• fac:to,y 
~ not,,-•,""•r~,-•~,_,.,.,,.,.,.,:_..,or-•r''-~-~•r,~ 
~tHW1"1,tt,,1irckll&.-1' 4"'«1NKIM~k1 -""l ' f l r~d l i l W110ffdUP"OCt'IHt1N 
<ti.-tt•~I Mttol\,.._., (llLl 

O.t•  Drl(..,.,.IH, 1006 • ~~ 1007 
('ptt,oa.,Or,tw-~\111' ...... 
1~ M ~ 

Nt.t, a  ."'1~tSt.t.o100\,C.......,us..,-,1'001 

c. 

On or about February 6 and 8, 2018, using infrastructure that was also used 

in the Olympic  Destroyer  malware  attack,  OCIIICHENKO created email 

accounts with usernames refl ecting the name ofthe ChiefExecutive Officer 

of the entity providing timekeeping devices for the Olympics. 

d. 

On  or  about  February  8,  2018,  OCHICHENKO  used  one  of the  newly 

created operational accounts to  send a spearphishing email, which he had 

3 1 

crafted over the prior two days, to  13  email addresses hosted at the domain 

belonging to  the  Olympic Timekeeping  Service  Company.  In this  email, 

OCHICHENKO included a link to a file  called "Bonuses.xis." 

e. 

On or about February 9,  2018, at 2:23  p.m. Moscow Time, shortly after the 

deployment  of the  Olympic  Destroyer  malware,  the  Conspirators  logged 

into a Moscow-based server used and managed by the Conspirators to locate 

news about one of the Olympics timekeeping partners. 

Malicious Mobile Application Development Targeting the 2018 Winter  Olympics 

53. 

On or about December 11, 2017, the Conspirators created a malicious "Seoul Bus 

Tracker"  mobile  application  and  registered  the  application  with  a  mobile  application  store 

approximately  one  hour  later.  The  application  became  available  to  the  public  on  or  about 

December  18,  2017,  but the  application store promptly identified and  suspended the  application 

before any downloads occurred. 

54. 

On  or  about  December  25,  2017,  the  Conspirators  created  a  mobile  application 

called "HanMail" that mimicked the name of a legitimate Korean email service.  The application 

became  available  to  the  public  the  next  day,  but  the  application  store  promptly  identified  and 

suspended the application before any downloads occurred. 

55. 

On  or  about  December  28,  2017,  the  Conspirators  created  a  mobile  application 

called "Hmail-App Naver Mail, Hanmail, Daum" that again mimicked the name of the legitimate 

Korean email service.  The application became available to the public on or about January 6, 2018. 

4 7  accounts  installed  this  application  before  the  mobile  application  store  suspended  the 

application. 

32 

The  Olympic Destroyer Malware Attack 

56. 

On or about February 9,  2018, employees of a company that provided information 

technology  ("IT')  support  to  the  Olympic  Games  ("IT  Company  1 ")  reported  laptops 

unexpectedly rebooting with messages from BitLocker, a full-volume encryption feature,  asking 

for a recovery key.  Multiple IT Company 1 servers experienced the same behavior.  These events 

were  caused  by  the  Conspirators'  widespread  deployment  of malware,  which  cybersecurity 

researchers  later named "Olympic Destroyer."  As  a result,  thousands  of computers  used by IT 

Company 1 and the PyeongChang Organizing Committee were compromised. 

57. 

To accomplish this end result, the Conspirators first compromised IT Company 1 's 

computer network and traversed the network seeking user credentials and information related to 

IT  services  being  provided  to  the  2018  Winter  Olympics.  Then,  upon  compromising  the 

workstation  for  an  IT  Company  1  network  architect,  the  Conspirators  used  this  employee's 

credentials  to  obtain  access  to  the  "Olympic  environment"  (i.e.,  the  IT  Company  1 computers 

supporting  the  2018  Winter  Olympics).  After  successfully  compromising  a  domain 

administration account, the Conspirators obtained the access they needed to  deploy and execute 

the Olympic Destroyer malware. 

58. 

The  Conspirators  designed  the  Olympic  Destroyer  malware  to  steal  valid  user 

credentials from victim computers and then spread and replicate itself across a victim's computer 

network by  exploiting  those  credentials.  Before  spreading  to  the  next  computer,  the  malware 

would overwrite itself to incorporate any additional usemames and passwords it was able to obtain 

from the previous computer to increase the success rate of its spreading capabilities.  Then, among 

other destructive  steps,  the malware  would delete  files  from  hard drives,  force  shutdowns,  and, 

33 

based in part on PLISKIN's  coding  efforts  in  and  around  January  2018,  impede  rebooting  and 

recovery by misconfiguring BitLocker.  In short, as designed by the Conspirators, the malware's 

primary objective was to render infected computer systems inoperable. 

59. 

The  Conspirators'  preparations  for  the  Olympic  Destroyer  malware  attack  had 

commenced approximately two months earlier, on or about December 4, 2017, which was the day 

before  the  IOC  suspended the  Russian  Olympic  Committee  and  its  president.  By  on or  about 

December 19, 2017-approximately 14 days after the IOC imposed sanctions against the Russian 

Olympic Committee-the Conspirators had begun compromising the computer network of the IT 

company  ("IT  Company  2") 

that  provided  services 

to 

the  PyeongChang  Organizing 

Committee.  By on or about December 21, 2017-approximately 16  days after the IOC imposed 

sanctions  against the  Russian  Olympic  Committee-the Conspirators had begun compromising 

IT Company 1 's computer network. 

60.  With unauthorized access to  IT Company  1's computer network,  the  Conspirators 

engaged  in  a  variety  of illicit  activities  to  obtain  credentials,  escalate  privileges,  and  move 

laterally throughout the network. 

a. 

The  Conspirators began their reconnaissance and lateral movement across 

IT  Company  1's  computer  network  by  on  or  about  December  21,  2017, 

using a particular IT Company 1 computer ("Computer 1 "). 

b. 

On  or  about  December  22,  2017,  the  Conspirators  stole  IT  Company  1 

credentials using an open-source, credential harvesting tool. 

c. 

On or·about December 22, 201 7, the Conspirators also sent a file containing 

four  sets  of credentials,  including  plaintext passwords,  to  Computer  1  to 

34 

assist in moving laterally across IT Company 1 's computer network through 

privilege  escalation.  The  file  included  credentials  belonging  to  an  IT 

Company 1 database developer, whose initials were K.S.  The Conspirators 

later used these  credentials  from  on  or  about  January  4,  2018,  until  on or 

about February  1, 2018. 

d. 

On  or  about  January  22,  2018,  the  Conspirators  executed  a  malicious 

PowerShell  script  containing  versions  of a  credential  harvesting  tool  that 

operate only in memory and are not easily detectable by antivirus software. 

The Conspirators designed this script to  gather user, IP address, and server 

data relating to  all  Remote Desktop Protocol ("RDP")  sessions since June 

1,  2017. 

e. 

The  Conspirators  accessed  several  systems  using  compromised  accounts, 

mostly operating from  Computer  1.  In particular,  on or about January  12, 

2018,  the  Conspirators  used  stolen  credentials  to  access  a  domain 

administration  account  (the  "Domain  Administration  Account")  for  a 

particular IT Company 1 network domain ("Domain 1").  As a result of the 

Conspirators'  efforts, they fully compromised Domain 1. 

f. 

On or about January 23, 2018, and January 24, 2018, the Conspirators used 

PowerShell scripts to dump credentials from more than 16,000 IT Company 

1 computers  and  servers.  This  included the  credentials  of approximately 

400 unique accounts associated with Domain 1. 

61. 

The  Conspirators also  used Computer  1,  the Domain Administration account,  and 

other  Domain  1 computers  to  obtain  and  view  Olympics-related  files  and  to  access  Olympics­

related websites. 

a. 

On  or  about  January  24,  2018-after  extracting  credentials  from  IT 

Company 1 's system-the Conspirators moved stolen credentials and other 

files to the Domain Administration Account's computer storage.  While on 

IT  Company  1's  computer  network,  the  Conspirators  also  accessed 

confidential  files  related to  the  IOC,  the  PyeongChang  Olympics,  and the 

Major  Events  sector  of IT  Company  1,  including  "PyeongChang  2018  -

Network architecture.docx," "PyeongChang2018 Disaster Recovery Master 

Plan.docx," "PyeongChang2018-RnR_ServerManagement.docx," "OCOG 

Domain  Account  Creation  Form.xlsx,"  and  "Tokyo  2020  environments 

overview.xlsx." 

b. 

On  or  about  January  24,  2018;  January  26,  2018;  January  29,  2018;  and 

January  30,  2018,  the  Conspirators  used  the  Domain  Administration 

Account  to  browse  local  and  shared  IT  Company  1  network  locations 

relating to the 2018  Winter Olympics. 

c. 

On or about January 31, 2018; February 2, 2018; and February 7,  2018, the 

Conspirators  used  Computer  1 to  visit  websites  related  to  the  Olympics, 

including pyeongchang2018.com (a domain belonging to the PyeongChang 

Organizing  Committee-i. e.,  the  other  entity  with  computers  affected  by 

the Olympic Destroyer malware), dms.pyeongchang2018.com (including a 

36 

self-service  password  reset  webpage ),  extranet.pyeongchang2018.com 

(including  password  change,  login,  and  security  check  webpages),  and 

pwd.pyeongchang2018.com (including password management webpages). 

d. 

From on or about January 24,  2018, to  February 9,  2018, the Conspirators 

repeatedly accessed and browsed files on a computer within Domain 1 that 

was  used by a  network  architect for  IT  Company  1's Major Events  team. 

During this time period, the Conspirators ran malicious scripts, explored the 

computer  for  credentials  and  credential  files  primarily  relating  to  the 

PyeongChang  Olympics,  and  pivoted  to  other  computers.  The  files 

accessed by the  Conspirators from  on or about January 24,  2018, to  on or 

about  January  31,  2018,  included  "Winter  Olympics.rdg,"  ''Venues.rdg," 

and  "Pyeongchang.rdg."  The  attackers  also  accessed  files,  such  as 

"PyeongChang  LAN  Network  Diagram.vsd,"  that  would  be  useful  for 

understanding how IT Company 1 's computer network was configured and 

for moving laterally across the computer network. 

62. 

The  Conspirators  used  a  particular  IT  Company  1  account  (the  "Deployer 

Account")  to  deploy  the  component  of  the  Olympic  Destroyer  malware  that  wiped  victim 

computers and servers and rendered them inoperable.  The Conspirators also deployed the malware 

to the PyeongChang Organizing Committee's computer network. 

a. 

On or about February 9,  2018,  at approximately 6:24 p.m.  Korea Standard 

Time,  the  attackers  uploaded  the  Olympic  Destroyer  malware  to  IT 

Company 1 's computer network. 

37 

b. 

Shortly  thereafter,  at  approximately  7:42  p.m.  Korea  Standard  Time­

during the  opening ceremony of the  Olympics-the Conspirators used the 

Deployer  Account  to  deploy  and  execute  the  wiper  component  of the 

Olympic  Destroyer  malware  within  Domain  1  using  a  technique  that 

permits  the  deployment  of software  to  multiple  computers  in  the  same 

network at the same time.  The malware deployment was facilitated in paii 

by  PLISKIN's  and  ANDRIENKO's  malware  development  efforts  in  and 

around January and February 2018. 

c. 

On or about February 9,  2018, from approximately 7:33  p.m. to  10:23  p.m. 

Korea  Standard Time-after the  Conspirators  used  a connection between 

IT  Company  2' s  computer  network  and  the  PyeongChang  Organizing 

Committee's  computer network  to  compromise  key  computers  within the 

Committee's  network-the Conspirators  deployed the  Olympic Destroyer 

malware 

to  30  computers  used  by 

the  PyeongChang  Organizing 

Committee.  As with IT Company 1 's computers, the malware rebooted and 

wiped the PyeongChang Organizing Committee's computers. 

d. 

On or about February 9,  2018, shortly after the deployment of the Olympic 

Destroyer  malware,  the  Conspirators  logged  into  a  Moscow-based  server 

used and managed by the Conspirators to locate news about the attacks and 

track the attacks'  impacts. 

63. 

The Conspirators attempted to hide their activities and avoid being identified as the 

perpetrators of the Olympic Destroyer attack. 

38 

a. 

For example, to  obfuscate the true source of the malware, the Conspirators 

crafted  the  malware's  computer  code  to  emulate  malware  used  by  the 

Lazarus  Group  in  North  Korea. 

In  the  months  prior  to  the  attack,  the 

Conspirators took steps to analyze Lazarus Group malware samples, system 

tools, and wipers in order to mimic the Group's malware. 

b. 

In  the  same  approximate  time  period,  ANDRIENKO  worked  on  an 

algorithm the Conspirators used to  obscure certain features of the Olympic 

Destroyer  malware,  in  order  to  hinder  any  post-attack  investigation  and 

avoid the detection of the malware by anti virus software. 

c. 

In addition, on or about December 22, 2017, the Conspirators established a 

command-and-control  implant  on  Computer  1 to  create  a  single  point  of 

access  between  IT  Company  1's  internal  network  and  a  server  hosted  in 

France  that  the  Conspirators  controlled.  This  single  tunnel  allowed  the 

Conspirators to better hide their activity on IT Company 1 's network and to 

issue  commands,  install  additional tools,  and  transfer data with respect to 

IT Company  1's computer system. 

The Targeting of the DSTL and the OPCW 

64. 

The  OPCW  is  the  body  that  implements  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  of 

1997  and  includes  193  member nations,  including  the  United  States.  The  OPCW provided the 

United  Kingdom with technical  assistance  (independent and  separate  from  the 

authorities' 

investigation) with respect to the March 4, 2018, poisoning of former GRU officer Sergei Skripal, 

his daughter, and U.K.  citizens in the United Kingdom (in Salisbury, England) with a nerve agent. 

39 

65. 

The  DSTL is  an  executive  agency  of the  United Kingdom's Ministry  of Defence 

and operates the  Salisbury-based Porton Downs Science Campus.  On or about April 3,  2018, the 

DSTL  announced that it  had identified the  poison used  against  Skripal  and  others  as  a military­

grade "N ovichok" nerve agent. 

66. 

On or about April 5,  2018, KOV ALEV created an email account with a username 

that  mimicked  the  name  of a  German  national  weekly  newspaper.  Shortly  after  creating  the 

account,  KOV ALEV sent spearphishing emails regarding the "Incident in  Salisbury," purporting 

to be from a Germanjournalist, to approximately 60 official DSTL email addresses.  The next day, 

KOVALEV used the above-described Email Service to  send emails, with malware attached, that 

appeared to  be from a legitimate DSTL email address. 

67. 

Also  on  or  about  April  6,  2018,  the  Conspirators  conducted  three  related 

spearphishing campaigns that targeted the OPCW and U.K.  agencies involved in the investigation 

of the poisoning. 

a. 

On or about April 6,  2018, the Conspirators used an operational account­

which was created on or about April 5, 2018, and had a username mimicking 

the  name  of a  U.K.  journalist working  for  a  U.K.  media  entity-to  send 

approximately  20  spearphishing  emails  with  the  email  subject  line 

"Salisbury Spy Poisoning Investigation" to official OPCW email addresses. 

In  the  emails,  the  Conspirators  purported  to  have  information  to  share 

regarding the poisoning. 

b. 

After  the  Conspirators  received  an  email  from  OPCW  directing  them  to 

instead  share  their  information  with  certain  U.K.  authorities  at  three 

40 

particular  email  addresses,  the  Conspirators  used  the  same  operational 

account to  send spearphishing emails to those three email addresses. 

c. 

Also on or about April 6, 2018, the Conspirators created another operational 

account, with a username mimicking the name of another U .K. journalist at 

the  same  U.K.  media entity,  and  shortly thereafter  sent  approximately  19 

spearphishing  emails  with  the  subject  line  "Salisbury  Spy  Poisoning 

Investigation"  to  official  OPCW  email  addresses. 

In  the  emails,  the 

Conspirators  again  purp01ied  to  have  information  to  share  regarding  the 

poisoning. 

The Conspirators' Activities Targeting the Country of Georgia 

68. 

Similar  to  their  targeting  of Ukraine  since  2015,  the  Conspirators  engaged  in  a 

broad cyber campaign against government and private sector entities in the country of Georgia­

including  the  Parliament  of Georgia and  a major  media outlet-with disruptive  and  destructive 

attacks to  undermine confidence in and otherwise destabilize Georgia. 

69. 

For example,  on or about January 

2018, KOVALEV created an email account 

with a username emulating the name  of a Georgian media entity that focuses  on news  coverage. 

Shortly  thereafter,  KOVALEV  used  the  account  to  send  eight  spearphishing  emails  with  a 

malware-laced  attachment  to  68  email  addresses  hosted  at  the  domain  belonging  to  that  same 

Georgian media entity. 

70. 

On  or  about  July  31,  2019,  and  August  1,  2019,  OCHICHENKO  conducted 

technical reconnaissance of the Parliament of Georgia's official internet domain and attempted to 

gain unauthorized access to its network. 

41 

71.  Months later,  on or about October 28,  2019, the  Conspirators engaged in  a wider-

ranging  cyber  attack  against  a  large  number  of entities  in  the  country  of Georgia.  This  attack 

targeted websites belonging to  Georgian government, non-government, and private sector entities 

and  involved the  defacement  of approximately  15,000 websites  and the  disruption of service to 

some  of these  websites  after  the  computer  systems  of a  Georgian  web  hosting  provider  were 

compromised.  In many cases, the  Conspirators replaced website home pages with an image of a 

former Georgian president, who was known for his efforts to counter Russian influence in Georgia, 

along with the caption "I'll be back." 

STATUTORY ALLEGATIONS 

72. 

Beginning at  least in  and  around November 2015  and  continuing until  at least in 

and around October 2019, the exact dates being unknown to the grand jury, in the Western District 

of Pennsylvania and  elsewhere,  defendants  YURIY  SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO,  SERGEY 

VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV,  PAVEL  VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOV ALEY,  ARTEM  V ALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR 

NIKOLA YEVICH  PLISKIN,  did  knowingly  and  intentionally  combine,  conspire,  confederate, 

and  agree  together,  with  each  other  and  with  others  known  and  unknown  to  the  grand jury,  to 

commit offenses against the United States, namely: 

a. 

to  access  a  computer  without  authorization  and  to  obtain  thereby 

information  from  a  protected  computer,  in  furtherance  of a  criminal  and 

tortious act in violation of the laws of the United States, that is, wire fraud, 

in violation  of Title  18,  United  States  Code,  Section  1343,  in violation of 

42 

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(2)(C) and 1030(c)(2)(B)(ii); 

and 

b. 

to  knowingly  cause the transmission of a program,  information,  code,  and 

command,  and  as  a  result  of  such  conduct,  to  cause  damage  without 

authorization to  a protected computer, and where the offense did cause and 

would,  if completed,  have  caused,  loss  aggregating  more  than  $5,000  in 

value to  at least 'one person during a one-year period from  a related course 

of conduct affecting a protected computer, the modification or impairment 

of the  medical  examination,  diagnosis,  treatment,  or  care  of one  or more 

individuals,  a  threat  to  public  safety,  and  damage  affecting  at  least  10 

protected  computers  during  a  one-year  period,  in  violation  of Title  18, 

United States Code,  Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and 1030(c)(4)(B). 

73. 

In furtherance of the conspiracy, and as  set forth in paragraphs  14,  51,  and  52, the 

Conspirators knowingly falsely registered a domain name and knowingly used that domain name 

in the  course  of committing  an  offense,  namely,  the  Conspirators  registered  domains,  including 

jeojang.ga and msrole.com, with false names and addresses, and used those domains in the course 

of committing the felony offense charged in Count One. 

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 371  and 3559(g)(l). 

43 

COUNT TWO 
(Wire Fraud Conspiracy) 

The grand jury further charges: 

74. 

The allegations contained in Paragraphs  1 through 9 and Paragraphs  11  through 71 

of this indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. 

THE CONSPIRACY AND ITS OBJECTS 

75. 

From at least in and around November 2015 and continuing through in and around 

October  2019,  in  the  Western  District  of  Pennsylvania  and  elsewhere,  defendants  YURIY 

SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO,  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV,  PAVEL 

VALERYEVICH 

FROLOV,  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV,  ARTEM 

VALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR NIKOLAYEVICH PLISKIN  did  knowingly  and 

intentionally conspire, combine, and 

to commit an offense against the United States, that is, 

wire  fraud,  contrary to  the provisions  of Title  18,  United  States  Code,  Section  1343;  to  wit,  the 

defendants,  YURIY  SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO,  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH 

DETISTOV,  PAVEL  VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  ANATOLIY  SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV, 

ARTEM  VALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR NIKOLA YEVICH  PLISKIN,  together 

with conspirators, having devised and intending to  devise a scheme and artifice to defraud, and to 

obtain  property  by  means  of false  and  fraudulent  pretenses,  representations  and  promises,  did 

transmit  and  cause to  be  transmitted by means  of wire  communication in  interstate  and  foreign 

commerce, certain writings, signs, signals, and pictures for the purpose of executing such scheme 

and artifice. 

76. 

Specifically,  an  object  of the  conspiracy  was  to  deploy  destructive  malware  and 

take  other  disruptive  actions,  for  the  strategic  benefit  of Russia,  through  hacking  of  victim 

44 

computers by means of false and :fraudulent pretenses.  These victims included those described in 

paragraph 3. 

77.  With respect  to  the  NotPetya  and  Olympic  Destroyer malware  attacks,  and other 

computer intrusions that were part of the  conspiracy, the Conspirators used stolen authentication 

credentials  to  misrepresent  their  identities  within  the  victims'  networks  to  obtain  unauthorized 

access to and move laterally within victim networks. 

78. 

In addition, in order to gain unauthorized access to victims' computer networks, the 

Conspirators  crafted  and  transmitted,  in  interstate  and  foreign  commerce,  spearphishing  emails 

that targeted the victims.  The Conspirators designed the spearphishing_ emails to appear legitimate 

in order to deceive recipient victims into opening the emails and clicking on malicious attachments 

or links that thereafter enabled the Conspirators to steal login credentials for the victims' computer 

networks.  The  malicious  links  included  spoofed  domains  that  resembled  legitimate  websites 

associated  with  the  victim  entities.  For  example,  the  Conspirators  registered  the  domain 

msrole.com  (which  mimicked  a  legitimate  Microsoft  domain)  on  November  15,  2017,  and  the 

domainjeojang.ga (which mimicked a website belonging to MAFRA) ori December 22, 2017, and 

thereafter utilized those spoofed domains in furtherance of the fraud scheme. 

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1349. 

45 

COUNTS THREE AND FOUR 
(Wire Fraud) 

The grand jury further charges: 

79. 

The allegations contained in Paragraphs  1 through 9 and Paragraphs 11  through 71 

ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. 

80. 

On or about the dates set forth below,  in the Western District of Pennsylvania and 

elsewhere, 

the 

defendants,  YURIY 

SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO, 

VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV,  PAVEL  VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOV ALEV,  ARTEM  V ALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR 

NIKOLAYEVICH  PLISKIN,  having  devised  and  intending  to  devise  a  scheme  and  artifice  to 

defraud,  and  to  obtain property  by means  of false  and  fraudulent  pretenses,  representations  and 

promises,  did transmit and cause to  be transmitted by means of wire communication in interstate 

and foreign commerce, certain writings,  signs,  signals,  and pictures for the purpose of executing 

such  scheme and artifice,  and  aided  and abetted the  same;  to  wit,  the  defendants  did knowingly 

transmit the NotPetya malware by means of a wire to the computer systems of the victim identified 

below,  on or about the dates and times  set forth below, and stole the victim's user authentication 

credentials to  move  laterally to  other parts  of the  victim's network,  with each such transmission 

being a separate count of this indictment: 

Count 

Approximate Date and Time 

Victim 

3 

4 

June 27, 2017 at 7:23  a.m.  Eastern 
Daylight Time 
June 27, 2017 at 7:24 a.m.  Eastern 
Daylight Time 

Heritage Valley Health System 

Heritage Valley Health System 

All in violation of Title  18, United States Code,  Sections  1343  and 2. 

46 

COUNT FIVE 
(Computer Fraud- Damage to  Computers) 

The grand jury further charges: 

81. 

The allegations contained in Paragraphs 1 through 9 and Paragraphs  11  through 71 

ofthis indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. 

82. 

On or about June 27, 2017, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and elsewhere, 

defendants YURIY SERGEYEVICH ANDRIENKO, SERGEY VLADIMIROVICH DETISTOV, 

PAVEL  VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  ANATOLIY  SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV,  ARTEM 

VALER YEVICH OCHICHENKO, and 

NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, did knowingly cause 

the transmission of a program, information, code, and command, and as  a result of such conduct, 

caused damage without authorization to  a protected computer;  to  wit,  the  defendants knowingly 

caused the transmission of the NotPetya malware, and aided and abetted the same, and as  a result 

of such conduct,  caused damage without authorization tb  computers used by the Heritage Valley 

Health System.  The offense caused loss resulting from  a related course of conduct affecting one 

or more protected computers aggregating at least $5,000 in value, the modification or impairment 

of the medical examination,  diagnosis,  treatment,  or care  of one  or more  individuals,  a threat to 

public health or safety,  and damage  affecting  10  or more protected computers  during a one-year 

period. 

All in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1030(a)(5)(A) and (c)(4)(B) and 

47 

COUNTS SIX AND SEVEN 
(Aggravated Identity Theft) 

The grand jury further charges: 

83. 

The allegations contained in Paragraphs  1 through 9 and Paragraphs  11  through 71 

of this indictment are repeated, re-alleged, and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. 

84. 

On or about the dates set forth below, in the Western District of Pennsylvania and 

elsewhere, 

the 

defendants,  YURIY 

SERGEYEVICH  ANDRIENKO, 

SERGEY 

VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV,  PAVEL  VALERYEVICH  FROLOV,  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV,  ARTEM  VALERYEVICH  OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR 

NIKOLA YEVICH PLISKIN, did knowingly transfer, possess and use without lawful authority, a 

means of identification of another person, and aided and abetted the same,  during and in relation 

to  a  felony  violation  enumerated  in  Title  18,  United  States  Code,  Section  1028A( c ),  namely, 

conspiracy  to  commit  wire  fraud,  in  violation  of Title  18,  United  States  Code,  Section  1349, 

knowing that the means of identification belonged to another real person who worked on behalf of 

the targeted victim organization: 

Count 

6 

7 

Approximate 
Dates 
January 4,  2018, 
to February 1, 
2018 
January 23, 2018, 
and January 24, 
2018 

Victim 
Organization 
IT Company 1 

Means of Identification 

U sername and password for 
account used by K. S. 

IT Company 1 

U sernames and passwords for 
multiple employee accounts 

In violation of Title 18, United States Code, Sections 1028A(a)(l ),  1028A(b),  1028A( c )( 4) 
and 2. 

48 

FORFEITURE ALLEGATIONS 

85. 

The  allegations  contained  in  Counts  One  through  Seven  of this  Indictment  are 

incorporated  herein  by  reference  as  though  fully  set  forth  herein  for  the  purpose  of alleging 

criminal  forfeitures  pursuant  to  Title  18,  United  States  Code,  Sections  982(a)(2)(B)  and 

I 030(i)(l )(A). 

86. 

The United States hereby gives notice to the defendants, YURIY SERGEYEVICH 

ANDRIENKO,  SERGEY  VLADIMIROVICH  DETISTOV,  PAVEL  VALERYEVICH 

FROLOV,  ANATOLIY 

SERGEYEVICH  KOVALEV,  ARTEM  VALERYEVICH 

OCHICHENKO,  and  PETR NIKOLA YEVICH  PLISKIN,  charged  in  Count  I  that,  upon their 

conviction of such offense, the government will seek forfeiture in accordance with Title 18, United 

States Code, Sections 982(a)(2)(B) and 1030(i)(l)(B), which require any person convicted of such 

offense to  forfeit  any property,  real  or personal,  constituting or derived  from  proceeds  obtained 

directly or indirectly as  a result of such offense. 

SUBSTITUTE ASSETS 

87. 

If any of the above-described forfeitable property, as a result of any act or omission 

of the defendants: 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence; 

has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third person; 

has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court; 

has been substantially diminished in value; or 

has  been  commingled  with  other  property  which  cannot  be  subdivided 
without difficulty; 

49 

• 

• 

it  is the  intent of the United  States,  pursuant to Title  18,  United  States Code,  Section  982(b),  to 

seek forfeiture  of any  other property of the  defendants  up  to  the  value  of the  above-described 

forfeitable property. 

A True Bill, 

FOREPERSON 

s~~ United States Attorney 

PA ID No.  88352 

50 

