INC Ransom threatens to leak 3TB of NHS Scotland stolen data Home News Security INC Ransom threatens to leak 3TB of NHS Scotland stolen data INC Ransom threatens to leak 3TB of NHS Scotland stolen data By Bill Toulas March 27, 2024 01:59 PM 0 The INC Ransom extortion gang is threatening to publish three terabytes of data allegedly stolen after breaching the National Health Service (NHS) of Scotland. In a post yesterday, the cybercriminals shared multiple images containing medical details and said that they would leak data "soon," unless the NHS pays a ransom. Scotland's NHS is the country’s public health system, providing services ranging from primary care, hospital care, dental care, pharmaceutical, and long-term care. INC Ransom is a data extortion operation that emerged in July 2023 and targets organizations in both the public and the private sector. Among the victims are education, healthcare, and government organizations, and industrial entites like Yamaha Motor . Reports about a cybersecurity incident disrupting NHS Scotland services appeared on March 15, likely when the attack occurred. In yesterday's post, the threat actor published several sample documents with sensitive information about doctors and patients, including medical assessments, analysis results, and psychological reports. INC Ransom extortion page (BleepingComputer) Only one regional health board affected A spokesperson for the Scottish Government told BleepingComputer that the cyberattack impacts only NHS Dumfries and Galloway, one of the regional health boards that make up NHS Scotland. "We are aware of some data published on the web that is linked to the recent cyber-attack on NHS Dumfries and Galloway. This incident remains contained to NHS Dumfries and Galloway and there have been no further incidents across NHS Scotland as a whole," - Scottish Government The spokesperson added that the government is working with multiple entities, including the health board, Police Scotland and other agencies (e.g. National Crime Agency, National Cyber Security Centre) to determine the impact of the breach "and the possible implications for individuals concerned." Meanwhile, NHS Dumfries and Galloway has confirmed today that a ransomware group leaked clinical data relating to a small number of patients. The organization states that this was the result of the cyberattack that occurred two weeks ago, which compromised its IT systems and resulted in the unauthorized access of “a significant amount of data including patient and staff-identifiable information.” “We absolutely deplore the release of confidential patient data as part of this criminal act,” stated NHS Dumfries and Galloway Chief Executive Jeff Ace. “This information has been released by hackers to evidence that this is in their possession.” Ace said that patient-facing services are operating normally, and the organization is working with the police and the National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) to formulate a response to the situation. Moreover, he assured that all patients who had their info leaked online will be informed directly by the NHS so they may take the appropriate measures to protect themselves. Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking 46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year. Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends. Get the Blue Report 2025 Related Articles: Nissan confirms design studio data breach claimed by Qilin ransomware DaVita says ransomware gang stole data of nearly 2.7 million people Change Healthcare hacked using stolen Citrix account with no MFA IdeaLab confirms data stolen in ransomware attack last year Switzerland says government data stolen in ransomware attack Data Breach Data Leak Healthcare INC Ransom NHS Scotland Ransomware Scotland Bill Toulas Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks. Previous Article Next Article Post a Comment Community Rules You need to login in order to post a comment Not a member yet? Register Now You may also like: Popular Stories Salesloft breached to steal OAuth tokens for Salesforce data-theft attacks TransUnion suffers data breach impacting over 4.4 million people CISA warns of actively exploited Git code execution flaw Sponsor Posts Defend against malware persistence with Wazuh, the open source XDR platform Keep your team VMware-ready: get certified with VMUG Advantage Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free Want to improve your team’s password habits? Try Passwork free for 1 month Make shadow IT visible. Discover your attack surface with Intruder. Book demo Login Username Password Remember Me Sign in anonymously Sign in with Twitter Not a member yet? Register Now Reporter Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment? Spam Abusive or Harmful Inappropriate content Strong language Other Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited. Submitting... SUBMIT