Security and IT Operations Platform Powered by AI I Anomali Demo The Leading AI-Powered Security and IT Operations Platform Anomali isn’t just different — it’s built differently. Anomali is engineered for the future — AI-ready and architected for speed and scale to power autonomous decisions, dynamic threat response, and secure, intelligent automation. Ultra-modern data lake architecture Anomali is truly cloud-native, with a microservices-based architecture that decouples compute from storage, spinning up exactly the right processing power each query needs. This just-in-time model eliminates is built for performance and efficiency, without the enterprise-grade cost. Purpose-built to replace your stack Anomali reimagines the security operations stack — including ETL, SIEM, Next-Gen SIEM, XDR, UEBA, SOAR, and TIP capabilities — integrating them natively into a unified, high-speed data lake. It’s a purpose-built with native AI and ML embedded at every layer, driving speed, clarity, and action at scale. Natively integrated threat intelligence The first and only solution to bring together security operations and defense capabilities into one proprietary cloud-native big data solution, reducing threat research time from hours to seconds. Value delivered from day one If you're ready to move fast, Anomali delivers unmatched speed, performance, and efficiency. But even if you’re not ready to replace your existing stack, you’ll still see value, with improved visibility, faster speed, and cost-efficiency from day one. Anomali Achieves FedRAMP "In Process" Status We’re proud to share that the Anomali Security and IT Operations Platform is now officially listed on the FedRAMP Marketplace as “In Process” at the Moderate Impact level. LEARN MORE The Fastest Path to Security and IT Analytics >50% Time saved by eliminating parsing, indexing & archival 300x Faster than legacy SIEMs 30TB+ Ingest 30TB+ of data in hours, not days 30 sec Search petabytes of data in seconds, not days Built For Every Role CTI Teams SOC Analysts CISOs MSSPs CTI Teams SOC Analysts CISOs MSSPs Operationalize your threat intelligence. Operationalize threat intelligence across your environment with curated feeds, automated enrichment, and real-time correlation. learn more Uncover threat data in seconds. Accelerate triage and investigation with high-fidelity alerts, fast search, and AI-assisted workflows. LEARN MORE Minimize your cyber risk. Optimize a complex technology stack to minimize risk and deliver on visibility use cases, including insider threat, intelligence, and compliance. LEARN MORE Empower your customers. Deliver high-speed, multi-tenant detection and response with built-in automation, flexible integrations, and scalable efficiency. LEARN MORE The Industry’s Most Powerful Integrated Solution Anomali Security Analytics Anomali delivers petabyte-speed analytics across years of security data with no delays, no throttling, and no blind spots. Our cloud-native platform fuses internal telemetry and external threat intelligence to surface what matters most, when it matters most. Learn More Anomali ThreatStream Operationalize global threat intelligence at scale. ThreatStream automates correlation, enrichment, and prioritization — turning raw indicators into real-time insights across your entire security environment. Learn More Anomali Copilot Anomali Copilot embeds generative and agentic AI across the security workflow. It helps teams ask better questions, move faster, and reduce toil — with natural language interaction, contextual recommendations, and automation you control. Learn More Modern SIEM Intelligence threat detection, investigation, and response Threat Intelligence Accelerate time to protection with curated intelligence Artificial Intelligence Empower analysts to navigate differently Anomali Security Analytics Anomali delivers petabyte-speed analytics across years of security data with no delays, no throttling, and no blind spots. Our cloud-native platform fuses internal telemetry and external threat intelligence to surface what matters most, when it matters most. Learn More Anomali ThreatStream Operationalize global threat intelligence at scale. ThreatStream automates correlation, enrichment, and prioritization — turning raw indicators into real-time insights across your entire environment. Learn More Anomali Copilot Anomali Copilot embeds generative and agentic AI across the security workflow. It helps teams ask better questions, move faster, and reduce toil — with natural language interaction, contextual recommendations, and automation you control. Learn More Anomali Security Analytics Anomali delivers petabyte-speed analytics across years of security data with no delays, no throttling, and no blind spots. Our cloud-native platform fuses internal telemetry and external threat intelligence to surface what matters most, when it matters most. Learn More Anomali ThreatStream Operationalize global threat intelligence at scale. ThreatStream automates correlation, enrichment, and prioritization — turning raw indicators into real-time insights across your entire environment. Learn More Anomali Copilot Anomali Copilot embeds generative and agentic AI across the security workflow. It helps teams ask better questions, move faster, and reduce toil — with natural language interaction, contextual recommendations, and automation you control. Learn More Anomali Security Analytics Anomali delivers petabyte-speed analytics across years of security data with no delays, no throttling, and no blind spots. Our cloud-native platform fuses internal telemetry and external threat intelligence to surface what matters most, when it matters most. Learn More Anomali ThreatStream Operationalize global threat intelligence at scale. ThreatStream automates correlation, enrichment, and prioritization — turning raw indicators into real-time insights across your entire environment. Learn More Anomali Copilot Anomali Copilot embeds generative and agentic AI across the security workflow. It helps teams ask better questions, move faster, and reduce toil — with natural language interaction, contextual recommendations, and automation you control. Learn More Transforming Security and IT Operations “Before Anomali, we had tons of information without context. We had to look through thousands of alerts quickly just to see what stood out and then react to those. Anomali enabled us to spend less time dealing with noise, and more time focusing on critical issues.” Devin Ertel CISO, Blackhawk Network Holdings “We leverage market-leading tools to give our company a competitive advantage and our 24/7 SOC a leg up on bad actors. With Anomali, we improve on both of these goals. By adding intelligence, we achieve a high level of certainty that enhances prioritization of the most serious threats our customers face, while improving our mitigation decisions.” Grant Leonard Co-Founder, Castra “The time it takes to analyze a threat has gone down from 30 minutes to just a few minutes, time that adds up over the course of investigating many malicious IPs every week. There has been a substantial decrease in terms of meantime-to-know.” Arindam Bose Senior Vice President & Security Officer, Bank of Hope “As one of the prominent banks in the United Arab Emirates, we manage assets and transactions for thousands of customers. One of our main commitments to our customers is security and we achieve this through solid partnerships with industry experts such as Anomali. By bringing in industry experts, we expect to gain advanced levels of security that will help us to further heighten our defenses and intercept any possible exploitation by cybercriminals.” K.S. Ramakrishnan Chief Risk Officer, RAKBANK The Latest From Anomali Stay ahead of the curve, gain valuable knowledge, and discover solutions tailored to your needs. SEe all Resources BLOG Strengthening Federal Cybersecurity: Anomali Achieves FedRAMP "In Process" Status Learn More BLOG Detecting the ToolShell SharePoint Exploit Learn More BLOG What's Next for SIEM? Insights From Detect LIVE Learn More