Cloud Security Resources | Google Cloud Cloud Security Resources Hub Insights from Google Cloud security experts on the frontlines, helping organizations reduce risk and feel confident in their ability to detect and respond to threats. Download today Filter by Content Types Blog posts Datasheets Events Infographics Insights Podcasts Security reports Technical guides Videos Webinars Whitepapers Topics BOD Insights CISO Insights Cloud Security Transformation Frontline Intelligence & Expertise Security & Identity Security Operations Threat Intelligence search send Featured filters Threat Intelligence Insights instant_mix The latest curated blogs, reports, and insights from Mandiant Frontline Experts. Security Reports instant_mix A collection of reports that address key challenges and findings around Threat Intelligence and Expertise, Security Operations, Cloud Security. Announcing new capabilities for enabling defenders and securing AI innovation Aug 2025 AI presents an unprecedented opportunity for organizations to redefine their security posture and reduce the greatest amount of risk for the investment. Now available: Cloud HSM as an encryption key service for Workspace client-side encryption Aug 2025 Organizations in highly-regulated sectors, such as government, defense, financial services, and healthcare, are required to meet stringent standards to safeguard sensitive data. Cloud CISO Perspectives: New Threat Horizons details evolving risks — and defenses Aug 2025 Welcome to the first Cloud CISO Perspectives for August 2025. Today, our Office of the CISO’s Bob Mechler and Anton Chuvakin dive into the key trends and evolving threats that we tracked in our just-published Cloud Threat Horizons report. Threat-Informed and Risk-Centric Security Operations Aug 2025 Struggling with manufacturing security? Our blog post on "Threat-Informed and Risk-Centric Security Operations" offers solutions. Learn how CISOs can align security with business goals, build cyber-physical resilience, and protect revenue by adopting a strategic, proactive security approach. Forrester study: Customers cite 240% ROI with Google Security Operations Aug 2025 As part of Google Cloud’s fundamental belief that robust security can enable business resilience and innovation, we're committed to empowering security operations teams with solutions that deliver measurable value and demonstrable return on investment (ROI). The Defender's Advantage Second Edition: A guide to activating cyber defense Aug 2025 Activate your cyber defense with The Defender's Advantage, Second Edition by Mandiant. A practical, six-function framework to help you take control of your environment. Boosting defenders with AI: What’s coming at Security Summit 2025 Aug 2025 While AI can help empower defenders, it can also create new security challenges. Those two critical, interconnected themes are driving our announcements and presentations for this year's Google Cloud Security Summit. Secure your storage: Best practices to prevent dangling bucket takeovers Aug 2025 Storage buckets are where your data lives in the cloud. Much like digital real estate, these buckets are your own plot of land on the internet. When you move away and no longer need a specific bucket, someone else can reuse the plot of land it refers to — if the old address is still accessible to the public. Security Operations Maturity Assessment Aug 2025 Take this assessment to rate your SOC maturity and in just 15 minutes you'll get a personalized report with expert recommendations from Google on how you can improve your security operations. Complex, hybrid manufacturing needs strong security. Here’s how CISOs can get it done Aug 2025 Transform your manufacturing security. As the industry embraces digital transformation, CISOs face new challenges. This blog from Google Cloud's Office of the CISO provides 11 actionable steps to secure hybrid OT environments, leverage cloud benefits for data-driven optimization, and ensure resilient operations in the face of evolving threats. Office of the CISO Manufacturing & Industries: Security Guidance for Cloud-Enabled Hybrid Operational Technology Networks Aug 2025 Unlock the future of secure manufacturing. Our new report provides a comprehensive blueprint for securing cloud-enabled hybrid OT networks. Learn how to implement a defense-in-depth strategy, from on-premises to the cloud, with actionable checklists and tactical guidance. Enhance your security posture and build a resilient industrial environment. Introducing audit-only mode for Access Transparency Aug 2025 As part of our commitment to cloud workload security and transparency, today, we’re introducing a new, lightweight audit-only mode for Access Approval to enable access approvals in an “on demand only” model. This new capability is available at no extra charge in the Security section of the Google Cloud Console. Show more Let's start security transformation today Contact us Consult the Google Cybersecurity Action Team to discuss your digital transformation. Google Cybersecurity Action Team Learn more about our shared fate model, designed to give you greater trust and confidence in the cloud. Shared fate model Explore best practices for supporting your security and compliance objectives. Security best practices center