Mandiant Cybersecurity Consulting | Google Cloud Download the latest Cyber Snapshot report for today's hot cybersecurity topics. Read now. Mandiant Cybersecurity Consulting Cybersecurity incidents require diligent preparation, rapid action, and critical asset protection. Our experts provide guidance so you can maintain confidence in business operations before, during, and after an incident. Contact an expert Incident response assistance 0:30 Enjoy a short, 30-second video overview of Mandiant. Experienced specialists backed by intel experts Mandiant responds to some of the world’s largest breaches. We combine our frontline expertise and deep understanding of global attacker behavior to respond to incidents and help organizations prepare their cyber defenses against compromise. Learn more Explore all security services The expertise you need, when you need it Use our frontline experience and deep understanding of global attacker behavior to prepare and defend your organization against compromise. Resolve incidents quickly Tackle breaches confidently Build your incident response capabilities, respond to active breaches, and minimize the impact of an attack. • Resolve incidents quickly with unmatched expertise • Confirm past and ongoing compromise • Stop breaches and investigate • Manage and respond to a crisis • Recover after a breach Explore Reduce the impact of a breach Put Mandiant on speed-dial with established Ts and Cs and a 2-hour response time Incident Response Retainer Uncover active or prior compromise and exploitable mis-configurations Compromise Assessment Help protect stakeholders, minimize risk, and preserve brand reputation Crisis Communications Guard against future compromise Increase resilience in the face of threats Enhance security capabilities to help outmaneuver today’s threat actors and provide resilience against future compromise. • Improve capabilities against threats • Advance approach to cyber risk management • Strengthen defenses against supply chain attacks • Evaluate insider threats Explore Become threat ready Assess your ability to effectively detect and respond to evolving cyber attacks Cyber Defense Assessment Evaluate cyber risk exposure for effective decision-making and risk mitigation Cyber Risk Management Assess and help mitigate risks associated with supply chain, M&A, and systems out of direct control Cyber Security Due Diligence Battle-test your security Test and strengthen your security program with real-world attacks See how your security program performs under pressure with simulated attacks against your environment to harden systems and operations. • Test security controls and operations • Evaluate with real-world attacks • Harden against the latest threats • Identify and close security gaps Explore Test your security and operations Find flaws before attackers can by testing your controls against the latest attack scenarios Red Team Assessment Evaluate your cloud security approach to protect cloud implementations and assets Cloud Architecture Assessment Assess your critical assets to pinpoint and reduce related vulnerabilities and misconfigurations Penetration Testing Develop and mature critical security functions Elevate your cyber defense capabilities across all critical functions Establish and mature cyber defense capabilities across functions. • Work to improve processes and technologies • Up-level threat detection, containment, and remediation capabilities • Receive hands-on support to implement necessary changes • Help optimize security operations and hunt functions Explore Begin your transformation Hands-on support to help implement priority changes and apply best practices for risk mitigation Cyber Defense Center Development Balance cyber risk with rapid business transformation to help CISOs and execs achieve their goals Executive Cybersecurity Services Incident response planning, metrics development, and playbook creation for priority use cases Planning and Process Improvement Incident response Resolve incidents quickly Tackle breaches confidently Build your incident response capabilities, respond to active breaches, and minimize the impact of an attack. • Resolve incidents quickly with unmatched expertise • Confirm past and ongoing compromise • Stop breaches and investigate • Manage and respond to a crisis • Recover after a breach Explore Reduce the impact of a breach Put Mandiant on speed-dial with established Ts and Cs and a 2-hour response time Incident Response Retainer Uncover active or prior compromise and exploitable mis-configurations Compromise Assessment Help protect stakeholders, minimize risk, and preserve brand reputation Crisis Communications Strategic readiness Guard against future compromise Increase resilience in the face of threats Enhance security capabilities to help outmaneuver today’s threat actors and provide resilience against future compromise. • Improve capabilities against threats • Advance approach to cyber risk management • Strengthen defenses against supply chain attacks • Evaluate insider threats Explore Become threat ready Assess your ability to effectively detect and respond to evolving cyber attacks Cyber Defense Assessment Evaluate cyber risk exposure for effective decision-making and risk mitigation Cyber Risk Management Assess and help mitigate risks associated with supply chain, M&A, and systems out of direct control Cyber Security Due Diligence Offensive security Battle-test your security Test and strengthen your security program with real-world attacks See how your security program performs under pressure with simulated attacks against your environment to harden systems and operations. • Test security controls and operations • Evaluate with real-world attacks • Harden against the latest threats • Identify and close security gaps Explore Test your security and operations Find flaws before attackers can by testing your controls against the latest attack scenarios Red Team Assessment Evaluate your cloud security approach to protect cloud implementations and assets Cloud Architecture Assessment Assess your critical assets to pinpoint and reduce related vulnerabilities and misconfigurations Penetration Testing Cybersecurity transformation Develop and mature critical security functions Elevate your cyber defense capabilities across all critical functions Establish and mature cyber defense capabilities across functions. • Work to improve processes and technologies • Up-level threat detection, containment, and remediation capabilities • Receive hands-on support to implement necessary changes • Help optimize security operations and hunt functions Explore Begin your transformation Hands-on support to help implement priority changes and apply best practices for risk mitigation Cyber Defense Center Development Balance cyber risk with rapid business transformation to help CISOs and execs achieve their goals Executive Cybersecurity Services Incident response planning, metrics development, and playbook creation for priority use cases Planning and Process Improvement Get flexible access to experts with a services retainer Establish an incident response retainer with flexible units to use for training and other services. The Mandiant Retainer is an annual subscription that extends your cyber defense team with frontline Mandiant experts, when you need them. Two-hour incident response time by frontline Mandiant experts Establish terms and conditions before an incident occurs, to shorten your response times Ask your toughest cybersecurity questions at any time There is no limit to the number of ad-hoc requests that can be submitted Access proactive services, training, and intel across the year as your needs change Request investigations, training, consulting services, and custom or finished intelligence reports View More Tap specialists across a range of services that fit your business challenges Mandiant Academy Build your cybersecurity  with training, certifications, and real-world exercises Cyber Risk Management Advance your approach for effective decision-making and risk mitigation Ransomware and multifaceted extortion protection Assess and help mitigate ransomware risks and understand effective response capabilities OT and ICS Services Receive guidance for securing mission-critical operational technology and industrial control systems Insider Threat Protection Reduce operational risk and minimize the impact of insider threat incidents and data theft Securing the use of AI Utilize AI to enhance cyber defenses while safeguarding the use of your AI systems Mandiant Threat Intelligence Services Leverage experts to accelerate decisions with custom insights and address threats with confidence.  Build and mature your organization's cyber threat intelligence (CTI) capabilities and implement best-practices together with expert consultation. Data Sovereignty Limit the processing of your cloud content to the United States or EU and validate sovereignty postures with User Data Shield. Are you capitalizing on your defender's advantage? “The threats will change all the time. Don’t ever forget the advantage that you do have. You should know more about your business, your systems, your topology, your infrastructure than any attacker does. This is an incredible advantage.” - Kevin Mandia, Founder, Mandiant, part of Google Cloud The Defender's Advantage: Cyber defenders have the fundamental advantage of combating adversaries in their own environment. Learn how to unlock your defender's advantage with an effective operating model that uses the six critical functions of cyber defense. Get the ebook here. ﻿ Your organization needs to be ready for any attack. This starts by knowing the threats you face—and Mandiant knows attackers and their tactics. This intelligence, combined with resilience and response capabilities, helps you galvanize your advantage and fight off attackers. Mandiant cybersecurity risk partners Mandiant works with leading law firms, insurance partners, ransomware negotiators, and other specialized firms to mitigate risk and minimize liability resulting against cyberattacks. Learn more Insights from the frontlines Get the latest trends in the cyber threat landscape from Mandiant M-Trends 2025 Read the M-Trends 2025 report Discover the best practices for effective cyber defense with The Defender's Advantage Read The Defender's Advantage ebook Learn how Mandiant consultants leverage AI Read the blog Read the newly released: Cyber Snapshot report, Issue 7 Download the report Have questions? Contact us. Mandiant experts are ready to answer your questions. Request a consult If you are currently experiencing a breach, contact Mandiant incident responders now. Incident response assistance