Lapsus$: Two UK teenagers charged with hacking for gang Skip to content Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Lapsus$: Two UK teenagers charged with hacking for gang 1 April 2022 Share Save Share Save Getty Images City of London Police has arrested seven people as a part of its investigation into Lapsus$ Two teenagers from the UK have appeared in court charged with hacking for a major cyber-crime gang. A 16- and 17-year-old appeared at Highbury Corner youth court, in London, on Friday charged with a number of cyber-offences. The two boys have been released on bail, subject to certain conditions. They were arrested as part of an international police investigation into the Lapsus$ gang, which has hacked major tech firms including Microsoft. Both teenagers are charged with three counts of unauthorised access with intent to impair operation of, or hinder, access to a computer, and two counts of fraud by false representation. The 16-year-old, has also been charged with one count of causing a computer to perform a function to secure unauthorised access to a programme. In court, the 17-year-old wore a dark blue Adidas T-shirt and grey tracksuit bottoms. The 16-year-old wore a grey tracksuit. Prosecutor Valerie Benjamin said the case should be sent to crown court due to its complex nature and the sums allegedly involved. Legal restrictions related to the ages of suspects mean the names or personal details about the boys cannot be revealed. The Lapsus$ group has successfully breached major firms such as Microsoft, and then bragged about it online. The FBI has launched an appeal for information about the people behind the hacking crew. Last week City of London Police which is leading the international investigation into Lapsus$, announced that it had arrested seven people between the ages of 16 and 21 in the UK. Around the same time as news of the arrests emerged, Lapsus$ told its 45,000 followers on Telegram that some of its members were taking "a vacation". On Wednesday, it started posting again - releasing stolen material from a software development company with headquarters in Argentina. Cyber-crime Computer hacking London Cyber-attacks Related AI firm says its technology weaponised by hackers Cyber-attack on UK contractor affects islanders My ex stalked me, so I joined a 'dating safety' app. Then my address was leaked More from the BBC 5 hrs ago Charity brings in barbers ahead of new school year Children from deprived backgrounds are invited to have free haircuts in a new move from the charity. 5 hrs ago 7 hrs ago Watch: Why I clean up my local canal path every day before I go to work Elena Horcajo has taken cleaning her local canal path in Hackney into her own hands. 7 hrs ago 7 hrs ago Is London set to put the brakes on SUVs? The number of SUVs in London has increased tenfold in 20 years, prompting calls to curb their use. 7 hrs ago 7 hrs ago Liverpool Street station plan 'waste of resources' Liverpool Street's redevelopment plan is "likely to be redundant on completion", campaigners say. 7 hrs ago 7 hrs ago Viking replica ship arrives at St Katharine Docks The Saga Farmann ship completed its two-year voyage in London, and will be on display in September. 7 hrs ago