Threat actors | Latest Threats | Microsoft Security Blog Skip to main content Search Threat actors Microsoft actively discovers and tracks threat actors across observed state-sponsored, ransomware, and criminal activities. Get insights from the 60 nation-state actors, 50 ransomware groups, and hundreds of other attackers we’ve tracked. Refine Results Refine results Sort By Relevance Newest to oldest Oldest to newest Content Type Topic Products and services Publish date Last 3 Months Last 6 Months Last 12 Months Custom Start Date End Date Apply July 31 13 min read Frozen in transit: Secret Blizzard’s AiTM campaign against diplomats Microsoft Threat Intelligence has uncovered a cyberespionage campaign by the Russian state actor we track as Secret Blizzard that has been ongoing since at least 2024, targeting embassies in Moscow using an adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) position to deploy their custom ApolloShadow malware. July 22 20 min read Disrupting active exploitation of on-premises SharePoint vulnerabilities Microsoft has observed two named Chinese nation-state actors, Linen Typhoon and Violet Typhoon, exploiting vulnerabilities targeting internet-facing SharePoint servers. July 16 7 min read Protecting customers from Octo Tempest attacks across multiple industries To help protect and inform customers, Microsoft highlights protection coverage across the Microsoft Defender security ecosystem to protect against threat actors like Octo Tempest. June 30 18 min read Jasper Sleet: North Korean remote IT workers’ evolving tactics to infiltrate organizations Since 2024, Microsoft Threat Intelligence has observed remote IT workers deployed by North Korea leveraging AI to improve the scale and sophistication of their operations, steal data, and generate revenue for the North Korean government. Retain Microsoft Security Experts Microsoft Security Experts are now available to strengthen your team with managed security services. Learn how to defend against threats with security experts. Get started May 29 12 min read Defending against evolving identity attack techniques Threat actors continue to develop and leverage various techniques that aim to compromise cloud identities. May 27 16 min read New Russia-affiliated actor Void Blizzard targets critical sectors for espionage Microsoft Threat Intelligence has discovered a cluster of worldwide cloud abuse activity conducted by a threat actor we track as Void Blizzard, who we assess with high confidence is Russia-affiliated and has been active since at least April 2024. May 12 10 min read Marbled Dust leverages zero-day in Output Messenger for regional espionage Since April 2024, the threat actor that Microsoft Threat Intelligence tracks as Marbled Dust has been observed exploiting user accounts that have not applied fixes to a zero-day vulnerability (CVE-2025-27920) in the messaging app Output Messenger, a multiplatform chat software. April 8 7 min read Exploitation of CLFS zero-day leads to ransomware activity Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC) and Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC) have discovered post-compromise exploitation of a newly discovered zero-day vulnerability in the Windows Common Log File System (CLFS) against a small number of targets. Modernize your Security Operations Center with Microsoft Sentinel Microsoft Sentinel is a cloud-native SIEM solution powered by AI and automation that delivers intelligent security analytics across your entire enterprise. Learn more March 13 10 min read Phishing campaign impersonates Booking.com, delivers a suite of credential-stealing malware Microsoft Threat Intelligence identified a phishing campaign that impersonates online travel agency Booking. March 5 13 min read Silk Typhoon targeting IT supply chain Silk Typhoon is a Chinese state actor focused on espionage campaigns targeting a wide range of industries in the US and throughout the world. February 13 10 min read Storm-2372 conducts device code phishing campaign Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center discovered an active and successful device code phishing campaign by a threat actor we track as Storm-2372. February 12 23 min read The BadPilot campaign: Seashell Blizzard subgroup conducts multiyear global access operation Microsoft is publishing for the first time our research into a subgroup within the Russian state actor Seashell Blizzard and its multiyear initial access operation, tracked by Microsoft Threat Intelligence as the “BadPilot campaign”. Load More Get started with Microsoft Security Protect your people, data, and infrastructure with AI-powered, end-to-end security from Microsoft. Learn how Connect with us on social X YouTube LinkedIn Notifications