Cyber Resilience | Accenture Skip to main content Skip to footer Cyber resilience Expand Menu See Cybersecurity / Cyber resilience Understand new threats, prepare and respond quickly to attacks Improve cyber readiness and response and use cyber intelligence to move from reactive to proactive. Why cyber resilience matters Today’s business leaders lack confidence in their own organizations cyber-preparedness. With a proactive approach, you can anticipate threats, fortify defenses, and build organizational resilience to safeguard your operations and foster confidence among stakeholders. Discover how to identify threats and respond fast with real-time insights and the right strategy. DATA Toggle accordion 74% of CEOs are concerned about their organization’s ability to avert or minimize damage to the business from a cyberattack $4.45M average cost of data breach in 2023 3.5M unfilled cybersecurity jobs worldwide, a 350% increase since 2013 play automatic slide show pause automatic slide show show previous slide slideText 1 ofText / 1 show next slide Enhancing UK Cyber resilience for a safer future In response to the rising cyber-attacks, Accenture, together with the National Cyber Security Centre and Cloudflare launched a scalable platform as a robust threat protection, already blocking 350 million cyber threats in the first month. Read more Cyber confidence requires cyber resilience Effectively prepare for, respond to and recover from cyber attacks. Drive leadership confidence in cybersecurity investments and resilience. What you can do Defend your organization from deepfakes and reinforce trust and resilience As these sophisticated digital manipulations become more prevalent, organizations need to fortify their defenses and effectively shield themselves from deepfake threats. Organizations must act quickly to reinforce trust and resilience. A combination of enhanced security capabilities, robust controls and employee education and awareness is critical. Learn more 223% Increase since 2023 in the buying and selling of deepfake-related tools on major dark web forums. Defend against cyber attacks Reduce your exposure to cyber threats and defend against the full spectrum of potential adversaries by establishing and testing a strong, confident security posture. Improve cyber readiness and response Prepare for, respond to and recover from cyber attacks that could impact your business operations and bottom line. Learn more Use cyber intelligence to move from reactive to proactive Generate insights from industry-relevant data and threat intelligence to make better business and security decisions. Transform cyber security to boost resilience Improve business outcomes and enhance operational resiliency by reinventing traditional cyber services. What you’ll achieve Consistent visibility Provide threat intelligence, test defenses to identify gaps, and develop and execute security programs to address high-priority cyber risk areas. Cybersecurity based on intelligence To continuously improve cyber resilience, leverage innovative assets, leading technology and data-driven insights, including cyber and industry threat intelligence. Scaled cybersecurity, reduced costs and complexity Use as-a-service teams to identify opportunities to automate, expand coverage, improve response time, enhance access controls and streamline vendors and tools. What we think about cyber resilience Close Research Report 4 critical actions to take now to strengthen your cyber defenses Cyber risks are growing faster than ever, outpacing security efforts. How do you get ahead of these threats? In this year’s State of Cybersecurity Resilience, learn the steps to build resilience as you embrace AI transformation. Expand Close Perspective Securing the digital core in the gen AI era To close the gap in security maturity within the digital core and achieve reinvention readiness, organizations must activate three strategic levers. Here are the essential strategies for success. Expand Close Blog Empowering a secure autonomous AI future As companies scale AI initiatives, especially generative AI, we're entering a new era of innovation. Ensuring a secure AI future is crucial, highlighting the importance of cybersecurity. Expand Close Research Report The Cyber-Resilient CEO Our research reveals how cyber-resilient CEOs use a wider lens to assess cybersecurity. Using our practical guide, CEOs can take five actions to minimize risk and put cyber resilience at the heart of reinvention efforts. Expand Close Research Report How cybersecurity guides your path in the cloud Accenture outlines how aligning security with advanced cloud practices enables organizations to strengthen their cybersecurity resilience. Expand Close Research Report Ransomware reoriented A modern ransomware and extortion response should be treated as a business risk that prioritizes effective crisis management across the enterprise. Expand Accelerate your cybersecurity journey mySecurity Transform cybersecurity and build resilience with our suite of diagnostics, as-a-service capabilities and transformation accelerators powered by automation and gen AI technology. Learn more