Russia: UK and US expose global campaign of malign activity by Russian intelligence services - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide this message Skip to main content Press release Russia: UK and US expose global campaign of malign activity by Russian intelligence services The UK and US share concerns about malign activity by Russia and have attributed a cyber attack to the Russian intelligence service. From: Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office and The Rt Hon Dominic Raab Published 15 April 2021 This was published under the 2019 to 2022 Johnson Conservative government UK shares US concerns about a continuing pattern of Russian malign activity UK attributes Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) was behind SolarWinds compromise The UK and US are today calling out Russia for carrying out the SolarWinds compromise, part of a wider pattern of activities by the Russian Intelligence Services against the UK and our allies. Russia’s pattern of malign behaviour around the world – whether in cyberspace, in election interference or in the aggressive operations of their intelligence services – demonstrates that Russia remains the most acute threat to the UK’s national and collective security. The UK, alongside its international partners, will continue to defend against Russia’s attempts to destabilise our societies. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, said: We see what Russia is doing to undermine our democracies.  The UK and US are calling out Russia’s malicious behaviour, to enable our international partners and businesses at home to better defend and prepare themselves against this kind of action. The UK will continue to work with allies to call out Russia’s malign behaviour where we see it. The UK can today also reveal for the first time that Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) was behind a series of cyber intrusions, including the SolarWinds compromise. GCHQ’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) assess that it is highly likely the SVR was responsible for gaining unauthorised access to SolarWinds “Orion” software and subsequent targeting. These incidents are part of a wider pattern of cyber intrusions by the SVR who have previously attempted to gain access to governments across Europe and NATO members. Since the SolarWinds vulnerability was uncovered, NCSC have been conducting extensive activity to understand and mitigate the compromise.  While the overall impact on the UK of the SVR’s exploitation of this software is low, the NCSC has identified a low single digit number of public sector organisations targeted through the SolarWinds vulnerability.  The government, including the NCSC, has been working hard to ensure those affected were rapidly mitigated. In addition, the UK government is today making available further information about the SVR’s cyber programme available here Media enquiries Email newsdesk@fcdo.gov.uk Telephone 020 7008 3100 Email the FCDO Newsdesk (monitored 24 hours a day) in the first instance, and we will respond as soon as possible. Share this page The following links open in a new tab Share on Facebook (opens in new tab) Share on Twitter (opens in new tab) Updates to this page Published 15 April 2021 Related content Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab ) . Cancel