CrowdStrike: We Stop Breaches with AI-native Cybersecurity Skip to Main Content CrowdStrike 2025 Threat Hunting Report: AI-driven threats exposed. Download report Experienced a breach? Blog Contact us Careers Platform Services Solutions Why CrowdStrike Resources Pricing 1 Upcoming events Sep 13 Conference Fal.Con 2025 Las Vegas, NV View all events Login Your Cart Added to Cart There's nothing in your cart Explore products per endpoint / per year - + View Order{cartSize} Continue Shopping Updating cart... Start free trial Platform Services Solutions Why CrowdStrike Resources Pricing Login Experienced a breach? Contact us Start free trial Back CrowdStrike to Acquire Onum A pioneer in real-time telemetry pipeline management Learn more Leading Cybersecurity into the AI Era Fal.Con is where the industry meets to shape the future. Register for Fal.Con Digital A Leader for the sixth consecutive time 2025 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Endpoint Protection Platforms. Download report Introducing CrowdStrike Falcon® Next-Gen Identity Security: The future is here Next-Gen Identity Security Introducing CrowdStrike Falcon® Next-Gen Identity Security: The future is here CrowdStrike named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Exposure Management Industry Recognition CrowdStrike named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Exposure Management CrowdStrike Named a Leader in the 2025 IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Incident Response Industry Recognition CrowdStrike Named a Leader in the 2025 IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Incident Response One Unified Platform. Built to Secure the AI Revolution. Agentic AI is the new attack surface. Secure your AI with CrowdStrike. Accelerate detection and response with autonomous reasoning and action. Secure the entire AI ecosystem with one platform. Explore Agentic AI Unified platform. One agent. Complete protection. CrowdStrike Falcon: Cybersecurity’s AI-native platform. Explore now Recognition by trusted analysts A Leader for the sixth consecutive time Report A Leader for the sixth consecutive time 2025 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Endpoint Protection Platforms. Download report CrowdStrike Recognized as a Leader in Exposure Management Excerpt CrowdStrike Recognized as a Leader in Exposure Management CrowdStrike was named a Leader in the 2025 IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Exposure Management—recognized for AI-powered prioritization, breadth of visibility, and platform-native remediation. Get the excerpt CrowdStrike Named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape Excerpt CrowdStrike Named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape CrowdStrike has been positioned as a Leader in the 2025 IDC MarketScape for Worldwide Cloud-Native Application Protection Platforms (CNAPP). Get the excerpt Previous Next CrowdStrike 2025 Threat Hunting Report Adversaries weaponize and target AI at scale. Download report Customers trust CrowdStrike to protect what matters most Jac Noel, Principal Engineer & Security Architect Intel Corporation Jac Noel, Principal Engineer & Security Architect “We immediately started seeing the benefits of a modern security stack.” Watch their story All testimonials Jennifer Czaplewski, Vice President, Cybersecurity Solutions Target Jennifer Czaplewski, Vice President, Cybersecurity Solutions "CrowdStrike really checks all of the boxes for things that we're looking for. They've been a good strategic partner." Watch their story All testimonials Kelly McCracken, SVP of Detection & Response Salesforce Kelly McCracken, SVP of Detection & Response “All of us see that we have to work together. It’s the only way that we are going to combat the advanced threat actors out there.” Watch their story All testimonials Previous Next 01 02 03 Experience industry-leading solutions from one powerful platform Secure your cloud CrowdStrike Falcon® Cloud Security Secure your cloud Stop cloud breaches with unified agent and agentless protection. Secure AI with new AI model scanning and AI security dashboard. Latest news Discover Cloud Security Stop identity attacks CrowdStrike Falcon® Next-Gen Identity Security Stop identity attacks Stop breaches faster with unified security for every identity — human, non-human, AI, and SaaS. Read blog Discover Identity Security Accelerate your SOC with AI CrowdStrike Falcon® Next-Gen SIEM Accelerate your SOC with AI Speed, scale, and unified visibility to stop breaches—not just log them. Latest news Discover Next-Gen SIEM Falcon platform bundles Start free trial Explore all bundles Falcon Go Annual price: $59.99 /device 2 Add to cart Try free What you get: Next-gen antivirus Information Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints Device control Information Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization Mobile device protection Information Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Express support Information Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns Falcon Pro Annual price: $99.99 /device Add to cart Try free What you get: Next-gen antivirus Information Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints Device control Information Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization Mobile device protection Information Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Firewall management Information Delivers simple, centralized host firewall management, making it easy to manage and control host firewall policies Express support Information Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns Falcon Enterprise Annual price: $184.99 /device Add to cart Try free What you get: Next-gen antivirus Information Protects against all types of threats, from malware and ransomware to sophisticated attacks, and deploys in minutes, immediately protecting your endpoints Device control Information Provides the visibility and precise control required to enable safe usage of USB devices across your organization Mobile device protection Information Safeguards your business from mobile threats with advanced protection that detects malicious activity and prevents unauthorized access on Android and iOS devices. Firewall management Information Delivers simple, centralized host firewall management, making it easy to manage and control host firewall policies Express support Information Available to assist small and medium businesses with installation and operational concerns Endpoint detection and response Information Delivers continuous, comprehensive endpoint visibility and automatically detects and intelligently prioritizes malicious activity to ensure nothing is missed and potential breaches are stopped Threat hunting Information Partners you with a team of elite cybersecurity experts to hunt continuously within the Falcon platform for faint signs of sophisticated intrusions, leaving attackers nowhere to hide Falcon Complete Next-Gen MDR Fully Managed Protection Falcon Complete Next-Gen MDR Rest easy knowing our team of world-class security experts are protecting your environment day and night, 24/7. Contact sales Schedule a demo Know them. Find them. Stop them. Adversaries are operating with unprecedented stealth, and today’s attacks take only minutes to succeed. Discover the adversaries targeting your organization. Explore Adversary Universe 1 Excludes special pricing or offers extended to our business partners, affiliates, or other third-party arrangements. 70% off Falcon Go, Falcon Pro, and Falcon Enterprise is for the first purchase only. 2 Purchases of Falcon Go are limited to a maximum of 100 devices. Gartner, 2025 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Endpoint Protection Platforms (EPP), Evgeny Mirolyubov, Franz Hinner, Deepak Mishra, July 14, 2025 Gartner, Voice of the Customer for Endpoint Protection Platforms, Peer Editors, May 23, 2025 GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner and Magic Quadrant is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from CrowdStrike. Update Cart? Update Cart? Only one bundle can be added to your cart. To add , will be removed. Cancel and keep Continue with Try CrowdStrike free for 15 days Try CrowdStrike free for 15 days Start free trial Contact us View pricing Get Started Pricing Free Trial Guide Falcon Flex Financing CrowdStrike Marketplace Company About Us Executive Leadership Board of Directors Newsroom Investor Relations CrowdStrike Racing & F1 Environmental, Social & Governance Partners Partner Programs Service Providers Strategic Technology Channel & Distributors Become a Partner Existing Customers Support Portal Developer Portal Support Call 1-888-512-8906 (US) Experienced a Breach? Contact Us Schedule a Meeting FAQs Copyright © 2025 Privacy Cookies Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Accessibility