Security | IBM Cost of a Data Breach Report 2025 AI is becoming a security risk. Are you covered? Security and identity 20 Aug Threat hunting What being a cop taught me about stopping hackers Ryan Anschutz 19 Aug Threat intelligence IBM X-Force Threat Analysis:  QuirkyLoader - A new malware loader delivering infostealers and RATs Raymond Joseph Alfonso 11 Aug Threat management Cyber Frontlines: Michelle Alvarez 30 Jul Cybersecurity 2025 Cost of a Data Breach Report: Navigating the AI rush without sidelining security Just how much are data breaches costing these days? Explore the 2025 Cost of a Data Breach Report to learn the average costs, the top-targeted industries and more. Read the article . Limor Kessem Data security 22 Jul In the protobuf: Web browser artifacts using Google's data interchange format Chris Tappin Explore the 2025 Cost of a Data Breach Report Most popular Data security Cybersecurity Ransomware Cyberattacks The Cost of a Data Breach What’s in the 2025 report — and what to know about security Report Cost of a Data Breach Report 2025 Technology Explained 2025 Cost of a Data Breach: AI Risks, Shadow AI, & Solutions X-Force Cyber Frontlines: Mark Hughes Podcast | AI in Action AI to defend against AI-based cybersecurity threats X-Force Cyberattack magnet? Unyielding threats plague the industrial sector On-demand webinar Manage risk in AI deployments: Deep-dive into OWASP Top 10 for LLM Report IBM X-Force 2025 Threat Intelligence Index X-Force In the protobuf: Web browser artifacts using Google's data interchange format On-demand webinar Govern, secure, and monitor AI in one unified experience Explainer What is threat detection and response (TDR)? Explainer What is network security? Explainer What is web security? IBM X-Force Threat management Vulnerability assessment Threat intelligence Discover more in X-Force Videos Learn the fundamentals and trending topics in security from our explainer videos View the cloud security playlist 2025 Cost of a Data Breach: AI Risks, Shadow AI, & Solutions Jeff Crume breaks down key findings from the IBM 2025 Cost of a Data Breach report, exploring AI security risks, shadow AI, phishing attacks, and IAM strategies. AI in Cybersecurity Learn how AI acts as a force multiplier to help you address security threats more effectively. What is SOAR? In this video, Jeff "The Security Guy" explains the need to have a strategy AND the right tools for handling security incidents, including so-called "black swan" events. Phishing Explained Security expert Jeff Crume explains the attackers' strategy, whether it's phishing, spearfishing or whaling -- and how to avoid falling for their traps. The anatomy of an att&ck Understand the MITRE ATT&CK in terms of “tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs)”, and “people, process and technology (PPTs)”, and how to defend against attacks. What Is SIEM? Sort through alerts with Jaqueline Lehmann using a SIEM system to correlate data from multiple sources and find accurate, high-fidelity alerts. Social Engineering - How Bad Guys Hack Users Watch how Jeff Crume, IBM Distinguished Engineer, describes the many methods that bad guy/hackers use that you should know about so you can protect yourself. The power of AI: Security Security AI and automation technologies enable organizations to stay ahead of cyber threats through faster incident detection and response. Stay ahead with the latest tech news Weekly insights, research and expert views on AI, security, cloud and more in the Think Newsletter Subscribe today