TA505 Abusing SettingContent-ms within PDF files to Distribute FlawedAmmyy RAT | Proofpoint US Skip to main content English: Americas Search Login Platform Products Solutions Proofpoint Contact Us Search Platform Products Solutions Partners Resources Company Search Login English: Americas Platform Products Solutions Partners Resources Company Prime Threat Protection Proofpoint Prime stops all human-centric threats for today’s and tomorrow’s landscape. Email Protection User Protection Impersonation Protection How to Buy More products Data Security & Governance Transform your information protection with a human-centric, omni-channel approach. Enterprise DLP Adaptive Email DLP Insider Threat Management Digital Communications Governance Data & SaaS Security Posture Contain SaaS and identity sprawl by responding to account takeovers and understanding your risk posture. Account Takeover Protection Data Security Posture Management Security Awareness Unlock full user risk visibility and drive behavior change. ZenGuide Optimize Proofpoint Solutions Premium Services More Protect People Products Account Takeover Protection Detect, investigate, and respond to account takeovers. Collab Protection Protect your people from messaging and collaboration threats. Email Fraud Defense Protect your brand reputation, increase deliverability and identify lookalikes of your domains. Secure Email Relay Secure your application email and accelerate DMARC implementation. Solutions by Use Case How Proofpoint protects your people and data. Ensure Acceptable GenAI Use Empower your workforce with safe GenAI practices. Authenticate Your Email Protect your email deliverability with DMARC. Combat Email and Cloud Threats Protect your people from email and cloud threats with an intelligent and holistic approach. More use cases Solutions by Industry People-centric solutions for your organization. Federal Government Cybersecurity for federal government agencies. State and Local Government Protecting the public sector, and the public from cyber threats. More industries Comparing Proofpoint Evaluating cybersecurity vendors? Check out our side-by-side comparisons. View comparisons Solutions By Use Case How Proofpoint protects your people and data. Change User Behavior Help your employees identify, resist and report attacks before the damage is done. Combat Data Loss and Insider Risk Prevent data loss via negligent, compromised and malicious insiders. Modernize Compliance and Archiving Manage risk and data retention needs with a modern compliance and archiving solution. Protect Cloud Apps Keep your people and their cloud apps secure by eliminating threats and data loss. Prevent Loss from Ransomware Learn about this growing threat and stop attacks by securing ransomware's top vector: email. Secure Microsoft 365 Implement the best security and compliance solution for Microsoft 365. Solutions By Industry People-centric solutions for your organization. Higher Education A higher level of security for higher education. Financial Services Eliminate threats, build trust and foster growth for your organization. Healthcare Protect clinicians, patient data, and your intellectual property against advanced threats. Mobile Operators Make your messaging environment a secure environment. Internet Service Providers Cloudmark email protection. Small and Medium Businesses Big-time security for small business. Proofpoint vs. the competition Side-by-side comparisons. Proofpoint vs. Abnormal Security Proofpoint vs. Mimecast Proofpoint vs. Cisco Proofpoint vs. Microsoft Purview Proofpoint vs. Legacy DLP Proofpoint vs. Check Point Harmony Partners Deliver Proofpoint solutions to your customers. Channel Partners Channel Partners and Distributors MSP Partners Archive Extraction Partners GSI Partners Technology and Alliance Partners Social Media Protection Partners Resources Find reports, webinars, blogs, events, podcasts and more. Resource Library Blog Keep up with the latest news and happenings. Webinars Browse our webinar library to learn about the latest threats, trends and issues in cybersecurity. Cybersecurity Academy Earn your certification to become a Proofpoint Certified Guardian. Podcasts Learn about the human side of cybersecurity. Threat Glossary Learn about the latest security threats. Events Connect with us at events to learn how to protect your people and data from ever-evolving threats. Customer Stories Read how our customers solve their most pressing cybersecurity challenges. Company Proofpoint protects organizations' greatest assets and biggest risks: their people. About Proofpoint Careers Stand out and make a difference at one of the world's leading cybersecurity companies. News Center Read the latest press releases, news stories and media highlights about Proofpoint. Privacy and Trust Learn about how we handle data and make commitments to privacy and other regulations. Environmental, Social, and Governance Learn how we apply our principles to positively impact our community. Support Access the full range of Proofpoint support services. Platform Discover the Proofpoint human-centric platform. Learn More Nexus Detection technologies to protect people and defend data. Zen Protect and engage users wherever they work. Search Proofpoint Try searching for Email Security Phishing DLP Email Fraud Select Product Login Support Log-in Proofpoint Cybersecurity Academy Digital Risk Portal Email Fraud Defense ET Intelligence Proofpoint Essentials Sendmail Support Log-in Select Language English: Americas English: Europe, Middle East, Africa English: Asia-Pacific Español Deutsch Français Italiano Português 日本語 한국어 Blog Threat Insight TA505 Abusing SettingContent-ms within PDF files to Distribute FlawedAmmyy RAT TA505 Abusing SettingContent-ms within PDF files to Distribute FlawedAmmyy RAT Share with your network! July 19, 2018 Proofpoint Staff Overview Threat actors regularly introduce novel vectors for distributing malware and especially prize those that allow code and command execution with minimal user interaction. Colleagues at SpecterOps recently published research[1] on abuse of the SettingContent-ms file format. Crafted SettingContent-ms files can be used to bypass certain Windows 10 defenses such as Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) and detection of OLE-embedded dangerous file formats. Specifically, this file format currently allows execution of commands such as cmd.exe and PowerShell without prompts or user interaction. Since the original publication of this approach, Proofpoint researchers have observed a number of actors -- “early adopters” -- abusing this file format by embedding it inside Microsoft Word and PDF documents. While the combination of the technique with the Microsoft Word container was described in the initial research, embedding inside PDFs has not been documented and likely originated with another source. Campaign Description We first observed an actor embedding SettingContent-ms inside a PDF on June 18. However, on July 16 we observed a particularly large campaign with hundreds of thousands of messages attempting to deliver PDF attachments with an embedded SettingContent-ms file. The messages in the campaign used a simple lure asking the user to open the attached PDF (Figure 1). Figure 1: Example message used to deliver the malicious PDF When opened, Adobe Reader displays a warning prompt, asking the user if they want to open the file, since it is attempting to run the embedded “downl.SettingContent-ms” via JavaScript. Note that this prompt would be displayed for any file format embedded within a PDF, and is not caused by the SettingContent-ms file itself (Figure 2). Figure 2: Adobe Reader presenting the user with a prompt to open the SettingContent-ms file If the intended victim clicks the “OK” prompt to open the file, Windows would then run the SettingContent-ms file and the PowerShell command contained within the “DeepLink” element (Figure 3), which leads to the download and execution of the FlawedAmmyy RAT. Figure 3: The SettingContent-ms file that contains the malicious PowerShell command Attribution This campaign is noteworthy because we attribute it with high confidence to a financially motivated actor we refer to as TA505 [3,4]. TA505 tends to operate at very large scale and sets trends among financially motivated actors because of their reach and campaign volumes. Our attribution is based on email messages, as well as payload and other identifying characteristics. Conclusion Whether well established (like TA505) or newer to the space, attackers are quick to adopt new techniques and approaches when malware authors and researchers publish new proofs of concept. While not all new approaches gain traction, some may become regular elements through which threat actors rotate as they seek new means of distributing malware or stealing credentials for financial gain. In this case, we see TA505 acting as an early adopter, adapting the abuse of SettingContent-ms files to a PDF-based attack delivered at significant scale. We will continue to monitor ways in which threat actors use this approach in the weeks to come. References [1] https://posts.specterops.io/the-tale-of-settingcontent-ms-files-f1ea253e4d39 [2] https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/leaked-source-code-ammyy-admin-turned-flawedammyy-rat [3] https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/threat-actor-profile-ta505-dridex-globeimposter [4] https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/ta505-shifts-times Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) IOC IOC Type Description 0a4f3f9acc61b85183108a31a306115fe34b571240da70920f0a1425fc32c3de SHA256 PDF Attachment 61b1dc4d69730dd83f7ef38dd01012fd3487a4db9eb52b024209967093ae180d SHA256 FlawedAmmyy Loader 56f1ab4b108cafcbada89f5ca52ed7cdaf51c6da0368a08830ca8e590d793498 SHA256 FlawedAmmyy RAT hxxp://169.239.128[.]164/tov URL URL used to download FlawedAmmyy Loader hxxp://169.239.128[.]164/sd87f67ds5gs7d5fs7df URL URL used to download the 2nd Stage FlawedAmmyy RAT 169.239.128[.]150:443 IP + Port FlawedAmmyy RAT C&C ET and ETPRO Suricata/Snort/ClamAV Signatures 2025408 || ET TROJAN Win32/FlawedAmmyy RAT CnC Checkin Previous Blog Post Next Blog Post Subscribe to the Proofpoint Blog Turn people into your best defense with Proofpoint Get in Touch ©
                2025.
                All rights reserved. Terms and conditions Privacy Policy Sitemap