The Leader in Digital Risk Protection | Fortra Brand Protection Skip to main content Proactively Detect and Mitigate External Threats Fortra Brand Protection breaks the attack chain of fraud and brand impersonation by detecting and quickly mitigating lookalike domains, phishing sites, fake social profiles, and other external threats. We offer the most complete solution in the market, delivering an unmatched combination of extensive detection and takedown capabilities that proactively disrupt external threats With Fortra, organizations can disrupt the infrastructure used in online attacks targeting their brands, employees, and customers. What Fortra Brand Protection Can Do for You Image Image Take Control of Your Brand’s Security Domain Monitoring Continuously tracks SSL certificate logs, passive DNS data, and DNS zone files to identify active domains across more than 2,000 TLDs, including gTLDs and ccTLDs. Social Media Protection Monitors threats across the social media landscape using data collected from thousands of sources, including social platforms, forums, blogs, repositories, and gripe sites. Executive Protection Safeguards executives and public figures from online threats and risks that may impact their personal safety, reputation, or organizational security. Counterfeit Protection Provides comprehensive detection across digital channels, quickly identifying and removing unauthorized ads and fake storefronts. Customer Phishing Protection Helps identify, prevent, and mitigate phishing sites to safeguard customer data and reduce the risk of account takeover. Dark Web Monitoring Scours the dark web for sensitive information such as compromised credentials, stolen PII, and mentions of your brand or executives. See Why Customers Trust Fortra Brand Protection It helps us mitigate the risks posed by cyber criminals by securing the company's most important assets, such as customer information, financial details, and other intellectual property. AVP Information Security, Mid-market Organization What I appreciate most is their Fortra Domain Monitoring service. It provides proactive, real-time detection of suspicious domains that could pose a threat to our brand or customers. It gives us peace of mind knowing that potential threats are being identified and mitigated before they can cause harm. Financial Services Professional, Mid-Market Helps to identify phishing websites to eventually disrupt and gain more attention of the user. The solution also comes with email domain spoofing attack protection which is more beneficial for enterprise users who frequently uses emails for day-to-day formal communication. Java Developer, Enterprise Organization Provides extensive coverage across various digital channels, including email, social media, and websites, making it a robust solution for protecting against a wide range of threats. The support team is responsive and knowledgeable. Security Professional, Enterprise Organization Previous Next Recommended Resources Guide Securing the C-Suite: Advanced Executive Protection Read More On-Demand Webinar Social Platform Impersonations: Types, Consequences, and Defenses Read More Guide Defending Against Look-Alike Domains Read More Text Find out if Fortra Brand Protection is right for you. Schedule a live demo to see our solution in action. SCHEDULE A DEMO