Conti and Akira: Chained Together | Arctic Wolf Search Experienced a Breach? Contact Us Blog EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Platform Platform How It Works Delivering security operations outcomes. Aurora Platform Collect, enrich, and analyze security data at scale. Alpha AI Leverage the power of scale and AI expertise. Platform Integrations Ecosystem integrations and technology partnerships. Concierge Concierge Delivery Model Tailored security expertise and guided risk mitigation. Arctic Wolf Security Teams Security experts proactively protecting you 24×7. Go Inside Our SOC Meet the security experts working alongside you and your team. Incident Response In Action Learn how our IR team stops attacks and swiftly restores your organization to pre-incident operations. Journey Security Journey Build a resilient business by embracing Security Operations. Cyber Resilience Assessment Map your security posture against industry standard frameworks. EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo Solutions Reduce Attack Frequency Incident360 Retainer Receive end-to-end IR coverage for one incident, no matter the incident type. Managed Security Awareness ® Engage and prepare employees to recognize and neutralize social engineering attacks. Managed Risk Discover, assess, and harden your environment against digital risks. Reduce Attack Severity Aurora Endpoint Security AI-driven prevention, detection, and response to stop endpoint threats before they disrupt your business. Managed Detection and Response Quickly detect, respond, and recover from advanced threats. Incident Response Recover quickly from cyber attacks and breaches, from threat containment to business restoration. Experienced a Breach? Transfer Risk Security Operations Warranty Stay covered at no cost with up to $3M in financial assistance for cybersecurity incidents. Cyber Insurance Increase the likelihood of insurability, and potentially lower your rates. Cyber JumpStart Access a complimentary suite of tools to reduce risk and improve insurability. Get Started View All Arctic Wolf Solutions Explore Arctic Wolf Bundles EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo Why Arctic Wolf Why Arctic Wolf Industry Analysis Awards & Recognition Customer Perspectives Security Operations Warranty Arctic Wolf Labs Expertise by Topic Compliance Solutions Ransomware Explained Incident Response Timelines Ransomware Attack & Containment Business Email Compromise Expertise by Industry Financial Services Healthcare State & Local Government Manufacturing Legal View All EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo Resources Resource Center Blog Case Studies Events Analyst Reports Webinars Interactive Tools Podcasts Glossary Technical Videos View All Trending Resources 2025 Arctic Wolf Threat Report The Arctic Wolf Threat Report draws upon the first-hand experience of our security experts, augmented by research from our threat intelligence team. The Arctic Wolf State of Cybersecurity: 2025 Trends Report The Arctic Wolf State of Cybersecurity: 2025 Trends Report serves as an opportunity for decision makers to share their experiences over the past 12 months and their perspectives on some of the most important issues shaping the IT and security landscape. Aurora: A New Dawn For Cybersecurity Join Arctic Wolf on an interactive journey to discover a better path past the hazards of the modern threat landscape. View All Resources Security Bulletins August 27, 2025 Widespread Salesforce Data Theft via Compromised Salesloft Drift OAuth Tokens August 26, 2025 CVE-2025-7775: Critical Citrix NetScaler Zero-Day RCE Exploited to Drop Webshells August 18, 2025 CVE-2025-20265: Maximum-Severity Remote Code Execution Vulnerability in Cisco Secure Firewall Management Center VIEW ALL View All Bulletins EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo Partners Partners Solution Providers Helping Solution Providers scale their business with a comprehensive portfolio of products and services. Cyber Insurance Providers Arctic Wolf provides the Insurance Partner Program for Brokers and Carriers to support them within the Cyber JumpStart portal. Technology Alliance Partners Ecosystem integrations and technology partnerships. Managed Service Providers Grow your business and solve your customers’ cybersecurity challenges with industry-leading turnkey security operations. OEM Solutions Arctic Wolf OEM Solutions enable ISVs, MSSPs, U.S. Federal Agencies, and security companies. Become a Partner EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo Company Company About Us Contact Us Leadership Customers Careers Working at Arctic Wolf Open Jobs Our Values Pack Impact Press Newsroom Press Releases IndyCar Racing EN EN-GB ( United Kingdom ) FR ( Français ) DE ( Deutsch ) Nederlands ( Dutch ) Suomi ( Finnish ) 日本語 ( Japanese ) Norsk ( Norwegian ) Svenska ( Swedish ) Ready to get started? Request a Demo EXPERIENCED A BREACH? REQUEST A DEMO Back to blog Conti and Akira: Chained Together Leveraging blockchain analysis, Arctic Wolf has begun to discern what ransomware groups Conti-affiliated threat actors have worked with; one such group is Akira. July 26, 2023 by Steven Campbell, Akshay Suthar, Connor Belfiore, and Arctic Wolf Labs Team Threat Research 6 min read In this article: Select Key Takeaways Since March 2023, Akira ransomware has compromised at least 63 victims with approximately 80% of them being small to medium-sized businesses (SMBs). We assess Akira is likely an opportunistic ransomware group due to their victimology and negotiation tactics. Through blockchain analysis, we assess with a high degree of confidence that some Conti-affiliated threat actors are linked to the Akira ransomware group. Background Since the fallout of Conti ransomware in mid-2022, Conti-affiliated threat actors have splintered off and developed or joined other ransomware groups to continue extorting victim organizations. Due to Conti’s source code being leaked, attribution back to the Conti ransomware group via code overlap is much more difficult. However, leveraging blockchain analysis, we can begin to discern what ransomware groups Conti-affiliated threat actors have worked with ; one such group is Akira. Who is Akira? Akira is a relatively new, fast-growing ransomware group—first observed in March 2023—that leverages the ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) business model to deploy Akira ransomware. Similar to other prominent RaaS groups, Akira exfiltrates data before encrypting victim devices and leverages it to perform double extortion. The group does not insist on a company paying for both decryption assistance and the deletion of data. Instead, Akira offers victims the opportunity to pick and choose what they would like to pay for. However, if a victim does not pay the ransom (ranging from $200K USD to over $4M USD based on Arctic Wolf ® Incident Response’s insights) the victim’s name and data are published to Akira’s leak site. Note : In 2017, security researchers identified a ransomware variant that appended an identical file extension (.akira) to encrypted files; however, this variant is not related to the Akira ransomware group. Akira Tor Leak Site According to Akira’s leak site, the group has compromised at least 63 organizations since their inception, with approximately 80% of their victims being small to medium-sized businesses (SMBs). Notably, some of the victims have been removed from the leak site. Victims by Employee Size and Location We assess that Akira is likely an opportunistic ransomware group due to their victimology and negotiation tactics. In nearly every incident response case Arctic Wolf investigated, the threat actors claimed that they needed time to review the exfiltrated data to determine a ransom demand. Victims by Industry Tools The Arctic Wolf Incident Response team has responded to multiple Akira ransomware intrusions since April 2023. In nearly all intrusions, the threat actors leveraged compromised credentials to obtain initial access to the victim’s environment. Notably, the majority of victim organizations did not have multi-factor authentication (MFA) enabled on their VPNs. It is unclear how the threat actors obtained the compromised credentials; however, it is plausible the threat actors purchased access or credentials on the dark web. Based on Arctic Wolf Incident Response data, Akira leverages a multitude of tools upon obtaining initial access to a victim’s environment. Known tools are listed below: Tools Leveraged by Akira Affiliates Tactic Tool Discovery PCHunter Advanced IP Scanner AdFind SharpHound MASSCAN Credential Access Mimikatz LaZagne Command and Control AnyDesk Radmin Cloudflare Tunnel MobaXterm Ngrok Exfiltration WinRAR WinSCP Rclone FileZilla Impact PsExec ​ Code Overlap and Similarities with Conti Identifying code overlap between different ransomware variants typically allows analysts to attribute activity back to a specific group due to ransomware source code being tightly guarded by threat actors. However, with the Conti source code leak, multiple threat actors leveraged the code to develop or modify their own code base making attribution back to Conti threat actors much more difficult. Although both ransomware variants differ, Akira ransomware does bear some semblance to Conti ransomware. Akira ignores the same file types and directories as Conti ransomware and has functions that are similar. Akira also used the ChaCha algorithm to encrypt files, which was implemented similarly to the one used by Conti ransomware. On June 29, 2023, however, Avast released a decryptor for Akira ransomware that victim organizations can use to decrypt files. Based on current intelligence, the threat actors have modified the encryption routine since the decryptor was published, indicating that it may not work if files were encrypted after June 29 th . Blockchain Analysis – Chained Together Although cryptocurrency can be acquired without attribution back to the buyer, it is not completely anonymous. Transactions between cryptocurrency wallets are published to the blockchain ledger which is publicly viewable via a blockchain explorer. By leveraging known threat actor cryptocurrency wallet addresses, we are able to conduct pattern analysis of the transactions and discover additional wallet addresses. In some instances, we have observed cryptocurrency address reuse between threat groups, indicating the individual controlling the address or wallet has either splintered off from the original group or is working with another group at the same time. Based on blockchain analysis of known Akira ransomware transactions, Arctic Wolf ® Labs identified overlaps between Akira and Conti threat actors on multiple occasions. Blockchain Transactions Between Akira and Conti Ransomware In at least three separate transactions, Akira threat actors sent the full amount of their ransom payment to Conti-affiliated addresses; the three transactions totaled over $600K USD. From there, we observed all the Conti-affiliated addresses conduct transactions with a group of shared intermediary wallets that were used to cash out funds from the ransom payments or transfer funds within the group. Notably, two of the Conti-affiliated wallets had transactions with wallets linked to Conti’s leadership team, with one housing addresses used to receive ransom payments for multiple ransomware families. Conclusion By following transactions discovered during blockchain analysis, we can tie individual groups together with higher fidelity based on transactions to and from known threat actor-controlled cryptocurrency addresses. Tracking ransom payments to Akira allowed Arctic Wolf Labs to identify transactions to Conti-affiliated addresses. The same analysis method allowed our team to identify connections between the Karakurt extortion group, Diavol, and the Conti ransomware group in 2022. Although Conti disbanded after increased pressure due to internal conflict and the publishing of their source code, many of the Conti members have continued to wreak havoc on organizations in 2023 through their activity with other ransomware-as-a-service groups, including Akira. Akira continues to evolve and grow as a ransomware group by changing its tactics to evade detection. Security best practices, such as enabling MFA on VPN appliances, can greatly hinder Akira’s ability to successfully compromise an organization. References Avast Decryptor 2017 Akira Variant The Karakurt Web – Arctic Wolf Labs Threat Research Authors Steven Campbell – Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher Steven Campbell is a Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher at Arctic Wolf Labs and has more than eight years of experience in intelligence analysis and security research. He has a strong background in infrastructure analysis and adversary tradecraft. Akshay Suthar – Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher Akshay Suthar is a Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher at Arctic Wolf Labs focused on researching adversary tradecraft and malware analysis. He has more than seven years of experience in a multitude of domains including threat intelligence research, detection engineering, and intrusion analysis. Connor Belfiore – Threat Intelligence Analyst Connor Belfiore is a Threat Intelligence Analyst at Arctic Wolf Incident Response. He has more than five years of experience in threat intelligence, financial crimes investigation, and blockchain analysis. Popular Topics Cyber Attacks and Breaches Cyber Insurance Incident Response Managed Detection and Response Regulatory Compliance Security Awareness Security Bulletins Threat Research Vulnerability Management View all posts Share this post: What to read next Back to Blog 24 min read Threat Research Threat Actor Profile: Interlock Ransomware August 15, 2025 View Post 22 min read Threat Research Dropping Elephant APT Group Targets Turkish Defense Industry With New Campaign and Capabilities: LOLBAS, VLC Player, and Encrypted Shellcode July 23, 2025 View Post 20 min read Threat Research Greedy Sponge Targets Mexico with AllaKore RAT and SystemBC July 18, 2025 View Post 7 min read Threat Research Leveraging Windows Defender Application Control to Block Dual-Use Application Abuse by Iran-Aligned Threat Groups July 14, 2025 View Post GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS Arctic Wolf Networks 8939 Columbine Rd Eden Prairie, MN 55347 1.888.272.8429 𝕏 REQUEST A DEMO Solutions Managed Detection and Response Cloud Detection and Response Managed Risk Cloud Security Posture Management Managed Security Awareness Incident Response Company Contact Us Careers Leadership Newsroom Partners Why Partner with Arctic Wolf? Resources Blog Case Studies Webinars Events Analyst Reports Newsletter © 2025 Arctic Wolf Networks Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Notice Terms of Use Cookie Policy Accessibility Statement Information Security Sustainability Statement Cookies Settings