New Linux-Based Ransomware Cheerscrypt Targets ESXi Devices | Trend Micro (SE) arrow_back search close Content has been added to your Folio Go to Folio ( 0 ) close Ransomware New Linux-Based Ransomware Cheerscrypt Targeting ESXi Devices Linked to Leaked Babuk Source Code New findings showed that Cheerscrypt, a new Linux-based ransomware variant that compromises ESXi servers, was derived from the leaked Babuk source code. We discuss our analysis in this report. By: Arianne Dela Cruz, Byron Gelera, McJustine De Guzman, Warren Sto.Tomas May 25, 2022 Read time: ( words) Save to Folio We recently discovered that Cheerscrypt , the new Linux-based ransomware that we detected in multiple attacks targeting ESXi servers, was based on the leaked Babuk source code . Upon scrutiny, we found similarities between Cheerscrypt and the Linux version of the Babuk ransomware, specifically its ESXi version. The base code of Cheerscrypt appears to be derived from the Babuk source code, but modified and customized to suit the malicious actor’s ransomware goals. This blog entry discusses our findings and provides an overview of Cheerscrypt’s infection routine based on the information we have gathered so far. Brief background Over the past few weeks, we observed several Linux-based ransomware detections that malicious actors launched to target VMware ESXi servers, a bare-metal hypervisor for creating and running several virtual machines (VMs) that share the same hard drive storage. We encountered Cheerscrypt, a new ransomware family that has been targeting a customer’s EXSi server used to manage VMware files, during this period. In the past, ESXi servers were also attacked by other known ransomware families such as LockBit , Hive , and RansomEXX as an efficient way to infect many  computers with ransomware. This blog entry provides an overview of Cheerscrypt’s infection routine based on the information we have gathered so far. Infection routine The ransomware requires an input parameter specifying the path to encrypt so that it can proceed to its Infection routine. Figure 1. Ransomware command line Upon execution, it implements the following command to terminate VM processes using ESXCLI : “esxcli vm process kill –type=force –world-id=$(esxcli vm process list|grep ‘World ID’|awk ‘{print $3}’)” The termination of the VM processes ensures that the ransomware can successfully encrypt VMware-related files. Similar to other infamous ransomware families, Cheerscrypt employs the double extortion scheme to coerce its victim to pay the ransom, as shown on their ransom note in Figure 2. Figure 2. Cheerscrypt’s ransom note Successfully encrypted files are renamed with the .Cheers extension. However, the ransomware first renames the files it will encrypt before encrypting the files. Thus, if the access permission for the file was not granted, it cannot proceed with the actual encryption. Figure 3. Cheerscrypt renames the sample before encryption. For each directory it encrypts, it will drop the ransom note named, “How to Restore Your Files.txt”.  It seeks out log files and VMware-related files with the following extensions: .log .vmdk .vmem .vswp .vmsn After successful encryption, it displays the following console that contains the data statistics of its routine: Figure 4. Console displayed after encryption Encryption algorithm Cheerscrypt’s executable file contains the public key  of a matching key pair with the private key being held by the malicious actor.  The ransomware uses SOSEMANUK stream cipher to encrypt files and ECDH to generate the SOSEMANUK key. For each file to encrypt, it generates an ECDH public-private key pair on the machine through Linux’s /dev/urandom. It then uses its embedded public key and the generated private key to create a secret key that will be used as a SOSEMANUK key. After encrypting the file, it will append the generated public key to it. Since the generated private key is not saved, one cannot use the embedded public key with the generated private key to produce the secret key. Therefore, decryption is only possible if the malicious actor’s private key is known. The infection chain is shown on Figure 5. Figure 5. Cheerscrypt’s encryption algorithm New findings: Cheerscrypt linked to Babuk Unlike Cheerscrypt, Babuk’s malware version used to compromise ESXi servers ensured that the files were encrypted before it renamed the target files. This goes to show that despite the Babuk ransomware operator’s announcement of their retirement — after claiming they already achieved their goals — their impact can still affect different organizations when other malicious actors build upon the source code they leaked. We provide Babuk’s source code for the malware variant specific to ESXi servers in Figure 6. In Figure 7, we can see that Cheerscrypt’s source code was based on Babuk’s source code that was leaked before. Figure 6. Babuk’s source code for the malware variant used to target ESXi servers Figure 7. Cheerscrypt’s source code with similarities to Babuk’s source code Conclusion ESXi is widely used in enterprise settings for server virtualization. It is therefore a popular target for ransomware attacks . As mentioned, compromising ESXi servers has been a scheme used by some notorious cybercriminal groups because it is a means to swiftly spread the ransomware to many devices. Organizations should thus expect malicious actors to upgrade their malware arsenal and breach as many systems and platforms as they can for monetary gain. Recommendations A proactive stance that ensures solid cybersecurity defenses against modern ransomware threats is crucial for organizations to thrive in an ever-changing threat landscape. To protect systems against similar attacks, organizations can establish security frameworks that systematically allocate resources based on an enterprise’s needs. Organizations can benefit from following the security frameworks established by the Center of Internet Security and the National Institute of Standards and Technology when developing  their own cybersecurity strategies. The frameworks they created help security teams to mitigate risks and minimize exposure to threats. Adopting the best practices discussed in their respective frameworks can save organizations the time and effort when they customize their own. Their frameworks guide organizations through the entire process of planning while providing suggestions on measures that need to be established first. Tags Endpoints | Ransomware | Research | Articles, News, Reports Authors Arianne Dela Cruz Threats Analyst Byron Gelera Threats Analyst McJustine De Guzman Threats Analyst Warren Sto.Tomas Sr. Threat Research Engineer Contact Us Related Articles Operation Serengeti 2.0: Trend Micro Helps Law Enforcement Fight Cybercrime in Africa Trend Vision One Integrates Microsoft Defender for Endpoint TAOTH Campaign Exploits End-of-Support Software to Target Traditional Chinese Users and Dissidents See all articles Trend Vision One™ - Proactive Security Starts Here. Resources Blog Newsroom Threat Reports Find a Partner Support Business Support Portal Contact Us Downloads Free Trials About Trend About Us Careers Locations Upcoming Events Trust Center Country Headquarters Trend Micro - Sweden (SE) Sveavägen 17 111 57,
			
				
				 Stockholm Sweden Select a country / region expand_more close The Americas United States Brasil Canada México Middle East & Africa South Africa Middle East and North Africa Europe België (Belgium) Česká Republika Danmark Deutschland, Österreich Schweiz España France Ireland Italia Nederland Norge (Norway) Polska (Poland) Suomi (Finland) Sverige (Sweden) Türkiye (Turkey) United Kingdom Asia & Pacific Australia Центральная Азия (Central Asia) Hong Kong (English) 香港 (中文) (Hong Kong) भारत गणराज्य (India) Indonesia 日本 (Japan) 대한민국 (South Korea) Malaysia Монголия (Mongolia) and рузия (Georgia) New Zealand Philippines Singapore 台灣 (Taiwan) ประเทศไทย (Thailand) Việt Nam Experience our enterprise cybersecurity platform for free Claim your 30-day trial Privacy Legal Terms of Use Sitemap Copyright ©2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. sXpIBdPeKzI9PC2p0SWMpUSM2NSxWzPyXTMLlbXmYa0R20xk