Iranian State-Sponsored and Aligned Attacks: What You Need to Know and Steps to Protect Yourself | Proofpoint US Skip to main content English: Americas Search Login Platform Products Solutions Proofpoint Contact Us Search Platform Products Solutions Partners Resources Company Search Login English: Americas Platform Products Solutions Partners Resources Company Prime Threat Protection Proofpoint Prime stops all human-centric threats for today’s and tomorrow’s landscape. Email Protection User Protection Impersonation Protection How to Buy More products Data Security & Governance Transform your information protection with a human-centric, omni-channel approach. Enterprise DLP Adaptive Email DLP Insider Threat Management Digital Communications Governance Data & SaaS Security Posture Contain SaaS and identity sprawl by responding to account takeovers and understanding your risk posture. Account Takeover Protection Data Security Posture Management Security Awareness Unlock full user risk visibility and drive behavior change. ZenGuide Optimize Proofpoint Solutions Premium Services More Protect People Products Account Takeover Protection Detect, investigate, and respond to account takeovers. Collab Protection Protect your people from messaging and collaboration threats. Email Fraud Defense Protect your brand reputation, increase deliverability and identify lookalikes of your domains. Secure Email Relay Secure your application email and accelerate DMARC implementation. Solutions by Use Case How Proofpoint protects your people and data. Ensure Acceptable GenAI Use Empower your workforce with safe GenAI practices. Authenticate Your Email Protect your email deliverability with DMARC. Combat Email and Cloud Threats Protect your people from email and cloud threats with an intelligent and holistic approach. More use cases Solutions by Industry People-centric solutions for your organization. Federal Government Cybersecurity for federal government agencies. State and Local Government Protecting the public sector, and the public from cyber threats. More industries Comparing Proofpoint Evaluating cybersecurity vendors? Check out our side-by-side comparisons. View comparisons Solutions By Use Case How Proofpoint protects your people and data. Change User Behavior Help your employees identify, resist and report attacks before the damage is done. Combat Data Loss and Insider Risk Prevent data loss via negligent, compromised and malicious insiders. Modernize Compliance and Archiving Manage risk and data retention needs with a modern compliance and archiving solution. Protect Cloud Apps Keep your people and their cloud apps secure by eliminating threats and data loss. Prevent Loss from Ransomware Learn about this growing threat and stop attacks by securing ransomware's top vector: email. Secure Microsoft 365 Implement the best security and compliance solution for Microsoft 365. Solutions By Industry People-centric solutions for your organization. Higher Education A higher level of security for higher education. Financial Services Eliminate threats, build trust and foster growth for your organization. Healthcare Protect clinicians, patient data, and your intellectual property against advanced threats. Mobile Operators Make your messaging environment a secure environment. Internet Service Providers Cloudmark email protection. Small and Medium Businesses Big-time security for small business. Proofpoint vs. the competition Side-by-side comparisons. Proofpoint vs. Abnormal Security Proofpoint vs. Mimecast Proofpoint vs. Cisco Proofpoint vs. Microsoft Purview Proofpoint vs. Legacy DLP Proofpoint vs. Check Point Harmony Partners Deliver Proofpoint solutions to your customers. Channel Partners Channel Partners and Distributors MSP Partners Archive Extraction Partners GSI Partners Technology and Alliance Partners Social Media Protection Partners Resources Find reports, webinars, blogs, events, podcasts and more. Resource Library Blog Keep up with the latest news and happenings. Webinars Browse our webinar library to learn about the latest threats, trends and issues in cybersecurity. Cybersecurity Academy Earn your certification to become a Proofpoint Certified Guardian. Podcasts Learn about the human side of cybersecurity. Threat Glossary Learn about the latest security threats. Events Connect with us at events to learn how to protect your people and data from ever-evolving threats. Customer Stories Read how our customers solve their most pressing cybersecurity challenges. Company Proofpoint protects organizations' greatest assets and biggest risks: their people. About Proofpoint Careers Stand out and make a difference at one of the world's leading cybersecurity companies. News Center Read the latest press releases, news stories and media highlights about Proofpoint. Privacy and Trust Learn about how we handle data and make commitments to privacy and other regulations. Environmental, Social, and Governance Learn how we apply our principles to positively impact our community. Support Access the full range of Proofpoint support services. Platform Discover the Proofpoint human-centric platform. Learn More Nexus Detection technologies to protect people and defend data. Zen Protect and engage users wherever they work. Search Proofpoint Try searching for Email Security Phishing DLP Email Fraud Select Product Login Support Log-in Proofpoint Cybersecurity Academy Digital Risk Portal Email Fraud Defense ET Intelligence Proofpoint Essentials Sendmail Support Log-in Select Language English: Americas English: Europe, Middle East, Africa English: Asia-Pacific Español Deutsch Français Italiano Português 日本語 한국어 Blog Threat Insight Iranian State-Sponsored and Aligned Attacks: What You Need to Know and Steps to Protect Yourself Iranian State-Sponsored and Aligned Attacks: What You Need to Know and Steps to Protect Yourself Share with your network! January 10, 2020 Recent events have led to a surge in concern about possible cyberattacks coming out of Iran. Below are the Proofpoint Threat Research team’s latest findings on state-sponsored and aligned Iranian attacks, details on 11 Iranian attack groups and their preferred tactics, and most importantly, security recommendations. Iranian Threat Actors: Operation Trends and Our Recent Findings Iranian cyberattack capability first came on the world stage around 2013, three years after the Stuxnet attack. State-sponsored and aligned attackers have been an ongoing threat and have targeted governments, organizations, and citizens around the world with significant impacts. Proofpoint’s Threat Research team is continuing to see activity that is consistent with the campaigns that were started in early December 2019. Based on past actions by Iranian threat actors, it is unlikely that new activity will happen immediately as they are often very methodical and are known to be deliberate over time. While we cannot predict the likelihood of increased attacks or what they might look like, it is valuable to examine previous attacks to better understand these threat actors. Historical data shows that this is not a threat to be taken lightly. Iranian attackers may not be as well-known as those from other countries, but they’ve successfully carried out many operations over the years, sometimes with significant, even devastating effects. Iranian attack groups mostly operate below the radar of major news coverage (with the exception of the Shamoon attacks). This is due to the methodical nature of their work and their ability to avoid causing major headline-grabbing incidents. They choose their targets carefully and infiltrate them slowly, frequently silently, for reconnaissance, espionage, or later attacks. These groups often specifically harvest credentials and hold them over time for maximum damage. This means Iranian attacks could already have information and a presence on target networks that could be mobilized in new attacks. Iranian attackers target not just the United States, Israel, and Saudi Arabia: they operate on a truly global scale. And while government and military targets are obvious ones, they also pursue telecommunications companies, finance organizations, human rights groups, and even academia. Worldwide organizations, across many sectors, should take this potential threat seriously. 11 Iranian Threat Actor Groups and Their Tactics Below, you’ll find information on major Iranian threat actor groups, the industries and countries and regions they’ve been known to target, and an overview of their tactics. This list includes information from MITRE’s ATT&CK framework on threat actor groups , publicly available information, and Proofpoint’s threat research. Iranian Attack Groups APT 33/Elfin : A group that since 2013 has been targeting aviation, energy, government, health care, and transportation sectors in Saudi Arabia, South Korea, and the United States. Some believe this group is responsible for the Shamoon attacks. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA451 and they have been active as recently as December 2019. APT 39/Chafer : A group that since 2014 has been targeting government, telecommunications, and travel sectors to collect personal information. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA454 and they have been active as recently as June 2019. Charming Kitten: A group that since 2014 has been targeting individuals in academic research, government, human rights groups, media, military, and technology sectors in Iran, the United States, Israel, and the United Kingdom by gaining access to personal email and Facebook accounts. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA453 and they have been active as recently as September 2019. Cleaver : A group or operation that was first tracked in 2014 targeting aviation, energy, military, transportation, health care, and utilities sectors in China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the United States. They are believed to have used fake LinkedIn accounts as part of their attacks. CopyKittens : A group that since 2013 has been targeting users in Germany, Jordan, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and the United States. Group5 (Suspected) :  Attribution to Iran is not definitive but this group has targeted individuals connected to the Syrian opposition with malware through spearphishing and watering hole attacks. LeafMiner : A group that since 2017 has targeted the email of individuals in government and businesses in the Middle East. Magic Hound : A group that since 2014 has targeted the energy, government, and technology sectors in Saudi Arabia. MuddyWater : A group that since 2017 has targeted the energy, government, media, and telecommunications sectors in Europe, the Middle East, and North America. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA450 and they have been active as recently as January 2020. OilRig : A group that since 2014 has targeted the aviation, energy, financial, government, media, technology, telecommunications, and transportation sectors in the Middle East. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA452 and they have been active as recently as December 2019. Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens : Silent Librarian is a group that since 2013 has targeted universities around the world. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA407. A related group known as Cobalt Dickens has targeted construction, media, health care, higher education/academia, health care, and transportation sectors. Proofpoint tracks this group as TA4900. These groups were active as recently as December 2019 and September 2019 respectively. Industries Targeted by Iranian Attack Groups Government: APT 33/Elfin , APT 39/Chafer , Charming Kitten, LeafMiner , Magic Hound , MuddyWater , OilRig Energy: APT 33/Elfin , Cleaver , Magic Hound , MuddyWater , OilRig Media: Charming Kitten, MuddyWater , OilRig , Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens Telecommunications: APT 39/Chafer , MuddyWater , OilRig Aviation: APT 33/Elfin , Cleaver , OilRig Health Care: APT 33/Elfin , Cleaver , Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens Technology: Charming Kitten, Magic Hound , OilRig Transportation: APT 33/Elfin , Cleaver , OilRig , Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens Construction: Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens Higher Education/Academia: Charming Kitten, Silent Librarian/Cobalt Dickens Military: Charming Kitten, Cleaver Financial: OilRig Human Rights Groups: Charming Kitten Travel: APT 39/Chafer Utilities: Cleaver Countries and Regions Targeted by Iranian Attackers Saudi Arabia: APT 33/Elfin , Cleaver , CopyKittens , Magic Hound , OilRig United States: APT 33/Elfin , Charming Kitten, Cleaver , CopyKittens Israel: Charming Kitten, Cleaver , CopyKittens China: Cleaver France: Cleaver Germany: Cleaver , CopyKittens India: Cleaver Iran: Charming Kitten Jordan: CopyKittens : South Korea: APT 33/Elfin Turkey: CopyKittens United Kingdom: Charming Kitten European Union: MuddyWater Middle East: LeafMiner , MuddyWater , OilRig North America: LeafMiner , MuddyWater Tactics Favored by Iranian Attackers Stolen Credentials: APT 33/Elfin , APT 39/Chafer , Magic Hound , MuddyWater , OilRig , Silent Librarian Email Infiltration: Charming Kitten, LeafMiner , Magic Hound , Silent Librarian Malware: CopyKittens , Group5 , Magic Hound Personal Information Gathering: Charming Kitten Social Media Targeting: : Charming Kitten, Cleaver Phishing: Group5 , Magic Hound , Silent Librarian Watering Hole Attacks: Group5 Security Recommendations Sophisticated Iranian state-sponsored and affiliate threats require careful focus internally and externally (in partnership with vendors, suppliers, and others) to improve the overall security posture of an organization—an elementary approach isn’t going to be enough. An immediate and effective action you can take to help protect your organization is mitigating the effects of stolen credentials, particularly those with administrative privileges. Some organizations should consider forcing password resets, including for service accounts. Be sure to reduce your attack surface, complete security program updates, and make sure employees are trained to identify possible threats. Watch what’s coming in and out of the network, and watch what employees are clicking on, opening, and distributing with the company. The smaller the surface, the harder it is for attackers to do anything. Make sure systems are patched because open source tools are available to anyone. We’ve seen APT groups use public vulnerabilities when they are released because it’s low hanging fruit. And finally, work actively with security leadership to implement a response plan that involves not just your organization but also your employees, vendors, and partners. Previous Blog Post Next Blog Post Subscribe to the Proofpoint Blog Turn people into your best defense with Proofpoint Get in Touch ©
                2025.
                All rights reserved. Terms and conditions Privacy Policy Sitemap